90Z 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         60  Offense  Group 
A or B  Corresponding NIBRS crime category 
and notes:  NIBRS  
Offense Code  
 
Sanitation Law Violations  B All Other Offenses  90Z 
Scalping, Ticket(s)  B All Other Offenses  90Z 
Sedition  B All Other Offenses  90Z 
Seduction  A or B Human Trafficking (Commercial Sex 
Acts), All Other Offenses  64A, 90Z 
Sex, Commercialized  A or B  Human Trafficking (Commercial Sex 
Acts), Prostitution Offenses, 
Pornography/Obscene Material, or 
All Other Offenses  64A, 40A, 370, 
(Depends on 
circumstances ) or 90Z 
Sex Offenses, Forcible  A Sex Offenses (Rape, Sodomy, Sexual 
Assault With An Object, or Fondling)  11A–11D 
Sex Offenses, N on-Forcible  A Sex Offenses, Non -Forcible (Incest 
or Statutory Rape)  36A or 36B  
Sexual Assault With An Object  A Sex Offenses (Sexual Assault 
An Object)  With 11C 
Shoplifting  A Larceny /Theft Offenses  (Shoplifting)  23C 
Simple Assault  A Assault Offenses  (Simple Assault)  13B 
Slander, Criminal  B All Other Offenses  90Z 
Smuggling, Alien  A or B Human Trafficking or 
Offenses  All Other 64A, 64B, or 90Z 
Smuggling, Contraband  B All Other Offenses (Other offenses 
may have been committe d, e.g., 
Drug/Narcotic Offenses ) 90Z 
Sodomy  A Sex Offenses (Sodomy)  11B 
Solicitation to Commit Felony  A or B  Classify as 90Z if Group A offense is 
involved unless it is an integral 
component of the Group A offense such as Human Trafficking or as Group B offense if Group B offense 
is involved  64A, 64B, 90Z, or 
Other (Group B) Offense (Depends on circumstances)  
Stalking  A Assault Offenses (Intimidation)  13C 
Stolen Property —Buying, 
Receiving, or Possessing  A Stolen Property Offenses  280 
Stripping Motor Vehicle  A Larceny /Theft Offenses  (Theft of 
Motor Vehicle Parts or Accessories)  23G 
Strong -arm Robbery  A Robbery  120 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         61  Offense  Group 
A or B  Corresponding NIBRS crime category 
and notes:  NIBRS  
Offense Code  
 
Subornation of Perjury  B All Other Offenses (Other offenses 
may have been committed, e.g., 
Bribery, Extortion/Blackmail, or 
Intimidation)  90Z 
Suicide  − (Not a criminal offense)   
Suspicion  − (Not a criminal offense)   
Swindle  A Fraud Offenses  
Trafficking  or Human 26A, 64A, or 64B  
 
–    
T – 
Tax Law Violations  B All Other Offenses  90Z 
Telephone Call, Threatening  A Assault Offenses (Intimidation)  13C 
Telephone Fraud  A Fraud Offenses  (Wire Fraud)  26E 
Terrorism  A  Classify as substantive offense, e.g., 
Assault, Destruction/Damage/  
Vandalism of Property, or Murder  Depends on 
circumstances  
Theft  A Larceny /Theft Offenses  23A–23H 
Theft From a Building  A Larceny /Theft Offenses  
Building)  (Theft From 23D 
Theft From a Coin -Operated 
Machine or Device  A Larceny /Theft Offenses  
Coin -Operated Machine(Theft From 
 or Device)  23E 
Theft From a Motor Vehicle  A Larceny /Theft Offenses  
Motor Vehicle)  (Theft From 23F 
Theft of a Motor Vehicle  A Motor Vehicle Theft  240 
Theft of Motor Vehicle Parts 
or Accessories  A Larceny /Theft Offenses  
Motor Vehicle Parts or Accessories)(Theft of 
 23G 
Theft of Vehicles or Equipment 
Other than Motor Vehicles  A Larceny /Theft Offenses  
Larceny)  (All Other 23H 
Threat to Commit  A or B Classify as 90Z if Group A offense is 
involved or as Group B offense if Group B offense is involved  90Z or Other (Group B) 
Offense  
(Depends on 
circumstances)  
Threatening Behavior  A Assault Offenses (Intimidation)  13C 
Threatening Conduct  A Assault Offenses (Intimidation)  13C 
Threatening Gesture  A Assault Offenses (Intimidation)  13C 
Threatening Telephone Call  A Assault Offenses (Intimidation)  13C 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   62Offense  Group 
A or B  Corresponding NIBRS crime category 
and notes:  NIBRS  
Offense Code  
Threatening 
Statement  Words or A Assault Offenses (Intimidation)  13C 
Threats  A Assault Offenses (Intimidation)  13C 
Traffic Violations  A or B  Do not report except for DUI, 
Hit and  Run, or Vehicular 
Manslaughter  DWI, 09A, 13A, 90D, 
(Depends on 
circumstances ) or 90Z 
Transmitting Wagering 
Information  A Gambling Offenses  (Operating/ 
Promoting/Assisting Gambling)  39B 
Transporting Persons for 
Prostitution  A Prostitution Offenses  (Assisting or 
Promoting Prostitution) or Human 
Trafficking  40B, 64A, or 64B  
Treason  B All Other Offenses (Other offenses 
may have been committed, e.g., 
Burglary or Larceny)  90Z 
Trespass of Personal Property  B All Other Offenses  90Z 
Trespass of Real Property  B Trespass of Real Property  90J 
–U –
Unauthorized Use of a Motor 
Vehicle (no lawful access)  A Motor Vehicle Theft  240 
Unauthorized Use of a Motor 
Vehicle  A or B  Embezzlement (lawful access but 
the entrusted vehicle is 
misappropriated) or All Other Offenses (The unlawful taking of a vehicle for temporary use when 
prior authority has been granted)  270 or 90Z 
Unlawful Assembly  B Curfew/Loitering/Vagrancy 
Violations  90B 
Unlawful  Entry  A Burglary/B reaking and Entering  220 
Unlawful Restraint  A Human Trafficking or 
Abduction  Kidnapping/  64A, 64B, or 100 
Unlicensed Weapon  A Weapon Law Violations  520 
Unregistered Weapon  A Weapon Law Violations  520 
Uttering  A or B Fraud Offenses (False Pretenses  
Swindle/Confidence Game, Impersonation, or Welfare Fraud), Counterfeiting/Forgery, or Bad 
Checks  26A, 26B, 26D, 26F, 
250, or 90A 
(Depends on circumstances)  
–V –
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   63Group Corresponding NIBRS crime category NIBRS  
Offense  A or B  and notes:  Offense Code  
Vagabondage  B Curfew/Loitering/Vagrancy 90B 
Violations  
Vagrancy  B Curfew/Loitering/Vagrancy 90B 
Violations  
Vandalism  A Destruction/Damage/Vandalism of 290 
Property  
Vehicular Manslaughter  A or B  Murder and N on-Negligent 09A or 90Z  
Manslaughter (if not accidental) or 
All Other Offenses (if accidental)  
Vice, Commercialized  A or B  Human Trafficking, Prostitution 64A, 40A, 40B, 370, 
Offenses  (Prostitution or Assisting 39A, 39B, 39C, 39D, or 
or Promoting Prostitution) , 90Z 
Gambling Offenses, Pornography/  
Obscene M aterial, or All Other 
Offenses  
Violation of Quarantine  B All Other Offenses  90Z 
Violation of Restraining Order  B All Other Offenses  90Z 
–W –
Wagering, Unlawful  A Gambling Offenses  (Betting/ 39A 
Wagering)  
Weapon, Concealed  A Weapon Law Violations  520 
Weapon, Unlicensed  A Weapon Law Violations  520 
Weapon, Unregistered  A Weapon Law Violations  520 
Weapon Law Violations  A Weapon Law Violations  520 
Welfare Fraud  A Fraud Offenses  (Welfare Fraud)  26D 
Wire Fraud  A Fraud Offenses  (Wire Fraud)  26E 
Wiretapping, Illegal  B All Other Offenses  90Z 
3 Electronic File  Submissions  
In
 NIBRS, LEAs use three types of electronic submissions to forward data to the FBI : 
•The Group A Incident Report provides all the information about Group A offenses using
up to six data segments ( Administrative  (page 64) , Offense  (page 64) , Property  
(page  64), Victim  (page 64) , Offender  (page 65) , and Arrestee  (page 65) ). Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         64  • The Group B Arrest Report supplies data concerning each arrestee for a Group B offense 
via the arrestee segment . • The Zero Report , which indicates no criminal ac tivity occurred within an agency’s 
jurisdiction during a given month. Using a series of the 58  established data elements (i.e., data fields within each segment), LE can 
describe the details of each component of the crime. For each data element, reporting  agencies 
may choose the most appropriate data value (i.e., a specific code represent ing one of the 
acceptable entries for each data element). 3.1 Group A Incident Report  
 
An initial Group A Incident Report contains an Administrative Segment, Offense Segment (s), 
Property Segment(s) (if applicable), Victim Segment(s), and Offender Segment(s). If the 
reporting agency arrests an offender by the time it submits the initial report, it may also include 
one or more Arrestee Segments. If, however, the reporting agency arrests an offender for the 
reported offense after  submitting the initial report, the agency should submit the Arrestee 
Segment(s) as an update to the initial report. If LE arrests an offender for a Group A offense for which it did not previously submit an initial 
incident report (e.g., an on- view arrest), the agency must create and submit a Group A Incident 
Report that provides not only the Arrestee Segment but also the Administrative, Offense, 
Property (if applicable), Victim, and Offender Segments. In other words, an agency cannot 
submit an Arrestee Segment for a Group A offense without the other segment information. Note:  Sometimes courts make applications for warrants without notifying LEAs  of the details of 
the crime (e.g., bench warrant and warrant  of arrest situations). As often as possible, LEAs 
should obtain the information regarding such crimes and report it in Group A Incident Reports 
or Group B Arrest Reports, depending on whether the crimes are Group A or Group B offenses. An explanation of the purpose of each of the six Group A Incident Report segments follows:  
 
Administrative Segment  
 
This segment contains administrative data that appl ies to the entire incident report (e.g., the 
identifying number assigned to the incident and the date and hour the incident occurred). The 
reporting agency should submit a single Administrative Segment for each reported incident. Note:   NIBRS Data Element 1 (ORI Number) and Data Element 2 (Incident Number) link the 
Administrative Segment to the  Offense, Property, Victim, Offender, and Arrestee Segments  in 
each incident. Offense Segment  
 The Offense Segment identifies and describes the types of offenses involved in the incident  
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         65  (e.g., 200  = Arson, 40A = Prostitution). The reporting agency should submit an Offense Segment 
for each of the (up to) ten most serious (as determined by the agency) Group A offenses in the 
incident. Even though there may have been more than one victim of a particular crime, the 
reporting agency should submit only one Offense Segment for each reported UCR Offense Code. Each Group A Incident Report must contain at least one Offense Segment. For example, i n the same incident, an offender assaulted two people by threatening them with 
a handgun. The reporting agency should submit only one Offense Segment with  
13A = Aggravated Assault entered into Data Element 6 (UCR Offense Code). In addition, the 
agency should submit two Victim Segments and enter 13A = Aggravated Assault into Data 
Element 24 (Victim Connected to UCR Offense Code), to link the two victims to this Offense Segment. Property Segment  
 
The Property Segment describes the type, value, and, in cases of drug seizur es, quantity of 
property involved in the incident. Agencies should report Property Segment(s) only when an 
incident involves a  Crime Against Property  offense , a Kidnap ping/ Abduction offense, Drug 
Narcotic Offenses, or Gambling Offenses . The reporting agenc y should submit a separate 
Property Segment for each type of property loss/etc. (i.e., b urned; counterfeited/ forged; 
destroyed/ damaged/ vandalized; recovered; seized; and/or s tolen/ etc. occurr ing in the 
incident). Furthermore, the agency may report up to ten types of property (e.g., a ircraft, 
alcohol, and a utomobiles) for each type of property loss/etc. Victim Segment  
 The Victim Segment provides information about each of the victims involved in the incident 
(e.g. , his/her age, sex, race, and ethnicity). The reporting agency should submit a separate 
Victim Segment for each of the (up to 999) victims involved in the incident. There must be at 
least one Victim Segment in each incident report. Offender Segment  
 
The O ffender Segment captures data about each of the offenders in the incident (e.g., his/her 
age, sex, race , and ethnicity ). The reporting agency should submit a separate Offender Segment 
for each of the (up to 99) offenders involved in the incident. If the reporting agency knows 
nothing about the offenders —i.e., no one saw the offenders, there were no suspects, and the 
number of offenders is unknown— then the agency should enter 00 = Unknown  as the data 
value for Data Element 36 (Offender Sequence Number), and leave Data Elements 37 through 
39A blank. There must be at least one Offender Segment in each incident report. Arrestee Segment  
 The Arrestee Segment is used to report the apprehension of the person(s) arrested for 
committing the crime(s) reported in the Group A Incident Report, the offense for which he or 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   66s
he was arrested, and the arrestee data (e.g., his/her age, sex, race, and et hnicity). The 
reporting agency should submit an Arrestee Segment for each of the (up to 99) arrestees who 
were involved in the incident. However, if there were no arrestees, the agency should not 
submit this segment. 3.2 Group B Arrest Report  
T
he Group B Arr est Report describes only the circumstances of the arrest, the Group B arrest 
offense, and the arrestee data (e.g., his/her age, sex, race, and ethnicity). This report does not 
include incident data since agencies report only  arrests for Group B offenses. Reporting 
agencies should submit a separate Group B Arrest Report for each arrestee. I
f an arrest for a Group B offense results in the clearance of a previously submitted Group A 
Incident Report, the reporting agency should submit an Arrestee Segment as an update to the previously submitted Group A Incident Report. The agency should enter the appropriate  
Group B offense code as the data value for Data Element 45 (UCR Arrest Offense Code) of the Arrestee Segment of the Group A Incident Report. Fo
r exampl e, on August 1, 201 5, an LEA arrested a man for DUI, a G roup B offense. The 
arresting agency determined he was also wanted for a previously reported r obbery, a Group A 
offense, that occurred on March 23, 201 5. Instead of s ubmitting a Group B Arrest Report,  the 
reporting agency should submit an Arrestee Segment as an update to the previous Group A Incident Report with 90D  = Driving Under the Influence  as the data value for Data Element 45. 3.3 Zero  Report 
O
n occasion, a small reporting agency may have no crime, arrests, or recovered property to 
report for a given month. In such instances, reporting agencies should use the Zero Report. This 
assists the FBI to compute valid statistics because it establishes no crime occurred in the jurisdiction rather than t he LEA reported no crime information. If an agency submits a Zero 
Report for a given month and subsequently enters a Group A Incident Report, a Group B Arrest Report, or an Arrestee Segment  for the month, the submission will override the Zero Report. 3.4 Report Modifications  
Clearing Incidents in NIBRS  
In
 NIBRS, LEAs clear incidents rather than individual offenses. This means a clearance by arrest 
or exceptional means of one offense in a multiple -offense incident clears the entire incident. Therefore, the fi rst Arrestee Segment reported in connection with an incident automatically 
clears the incident. However, an agency cannot clear an incident by exceptional means if it was 
already cleared by arrest (i.e., the agency previously submitted an Arrestee Segment) . Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         67  Updating Incidents in NIBRS  
 
Once
 LEAs submit incidents to the National UCR Program, circumstances may arise that warrant  
updating their original submission s. The flexibility of NIBRS provides for updating reports by 
adding, modifying, and deleting data. The National UCR Program’s  updating policy states , an 
agency should update a report only if the change would substantially alter the report’s 
statistical significance. More specifically, if a subsequent event materially affects the report, or if the LEA made a serious error when it submitted the original report, the LEA will need to update the report. Anytime an agency updates a report, the agency should resubmit the report 
so the data are the same at all levels —city, university and college, county, state,  tribal,  and 
federal. Examples of circumstances requiring an  update include the discovery of an additional 
unreported offense, victim, and/or offender; a subsequent arrest or exceptional clearance; 
discovery of a significant amount of unreported property loss; the recovery of stolen property; or the incorrect entry of important data, such as the offense code, the victim’s or arrestee’s sex or race, etc. Examples of circumstances not requir ing an  update include the agency learning the exact age of 
the offender (e.g., 22) after reporting an age range (e.g., 20 -25); the agency learning the true 
value of stolen property (e.g., $958) after reporting the approximate cost (e.g., $1,000); or the agency learning , besides suffering a severe laceration previously  reported, the victim also 
suffered internal injury. An agency participating in NIBRS may, of course, update more data than is required by the 
National UCR Program’s  policy. If a reporting  state  UCR Program (or a direct agency participant) 
updates a record in its RMS, it should also submit the updated record for the national file. LEAs can find additional information about adding, deleting, and modifying information in NIBRS in the NIBRS Technical Specification  or the  NIBRS Information Exchange Package 
Documentation (IEPD ). Note:   The NIBRS Technical Specification and the NIBRS IEPD  are companion documents to th e 
NIBRS User Manual . These documents define the requirements  sets (data elements) used to 
submit data for NIBRS. The NIBRS User Manual  is the technical communication document 
designed to assist the users of NIBRS. 4 Data Elements  and Data Values  
 
LEAs use data elements and data values to report data to the FBI’s UCR Prog ram via NIBRS. Additional information about reporting requirements and specifications for submitting data to NIBRS is located in the NIBRS Technical Specification. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   684.1 Definition of Data Element  
A d
ata element is the smallest named item of data that  conveys meaningful information or  
condenses a lengthy description into a short code. LE should use a series of the 58  established 
data elements  (i.e., data fields ) within each segment of the Group A Incident Report and in the 
Group B Arrest Report to describe the details of each component of crime. 4.2 Mandatory Versus Optional Data Elements  
L
EAs must  report s ome data element s that are required in order to have a complete/valid data 
submission , i.e., they are mandatory . Other data elements are conditional based on the data 
values submitted for the other data elements. Other  data elements are optional  and can be 
reported to the FBI at the discretion of t he agency . 4.3 Definition of Data Values  
A d
ata value is a characteristic of an object (such as the sex of a  person) or a parameter of a 
data element  (such as 1991 – Current Year) . For each data element, reporting agencies should 
choose the most appropriate data value(s ) (i.e., specific characteristics or types of the reported 
data  that have assigned codes). Although some data values require a specific format, most are 
codes from an approved list, each followed by an equal sign (=) and the actual value. For 
example, for Data Element 3 (Incident Date), the specific format for the data value is 
YYYYMMDD HH. For D ata Element 27 (Sex of Victim), agencies may enter one of the codes  M = 
Male, F = Female, or U = Unknown to describe the gender of the victim; but for Data Element 48 (Sex of Arrestee), agencies can enter only M = Male or F = Female to describe the sex of the 
arrestee. I
f more than one of the data values associated with a data element could apply to the situation, 
agencies should use the most specific one. For example, in Data Element 9 (Location Type), a  
7-Eleven store could be described as 05 = Commercial/Office Building, 07 = Convenience Store, 
or 12 = Grocery/Supermarket. Because 07 = Convenience Store is the most specific description, 
reporting agencies should use this code. I
n some instances, data elements allow for the entry of more than one data value. For example, 
Data Element 12 (Type Criminal Activity/Gang Information) allows LEAs to report up to three 
types of activity for each offense. If, in a drug case, the offenders grew marijuana and 
distributed it by having children sell it at school, the data values of C = Cultivating/  
Manufacturing/Publishing, D = Distributing/Selling, and E = Exploiting Children should be entered. 4.4 Clarification  of Specific Data Elements  and Data Values  
T
he information in this section provides general explanations of  data elements and relates 
more to the functional aspect of the UCR Program rather than the technical entry 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         69  requirements . LEAs will find the technical aspects for each data element (format, related edits, 
and valid data values) in the NIBRS Technical Specif ication . Data Element 1 (ORI)  
 
An ORI [ Origin ating Agency Identifier ] is a unique nine -character identifier the NCIC has 
assign ed to each LEA  in coordination with the CSO . The UCR Program uses this identifier to 
indicate the contributing agency . Data Element  1 is mandatory in each NIBRS submission. Data Element 2 (Incident Number)  
 An incident number is the number assigned by the reporting agency to each Group A Incident 
Report to uniquely identify the incident (e.g., the LEA’s c ase number). Data Eleme nt 2 is 
mandatory in each NIBRS submission. If data from a Group A Incident Report are furnished to outside entities for research purposes, 
the FBI will encrypt the incident numbers prior to their dissemination to ensure the recipient cannot identify the actual case. Agencies may also encrypt their incident numbers before 
sending them to the FBI. Data Element 2A (Cargo Theft) 
 
Data Element  2A indicates whether or not the incident involved a c argo theft. The National UCR 
Program has defined C argo Theft as “the criminal taking of any cargo including, but not limited 
to, goods, chattels, money, or baggage that constitutes, in whole or in part, a commercial shipment of freight moving in commerce, from any pipeline system, railroad car, motor truck, 
or othe r vehicle, or from any tank or storage facility, station house, platform, or depot, or from 
any vessel or wharf, or from any aircraft, air terminal, airport, aircraft terminal or air freight 
station, warehouse, freight distribution facility, or freight con solidation facility. For purposes of 
this definition, cargo shall be deemed as moving in commerce at all points between the point of origin and the final destination, regardless of any temporary stop while awaiting transshipment or otherwise. ”  
 Two key ph rases in the classification of cargo theft are “commercial shipment” and “in the 
supply chain.”  For LEAs to classify an incident as a c argo theft, the items must be part of a 
commercial shipment and must be in the supply chain ( i.e., moving in commerce). LEAs should consider t hefts of goods being delivered to a business from United Parcel Service 
(UPS), Federal Express (FedEx), the U.S. Postal Service, etc., to be cargo until the items arrive at 
the business, or  final distribution point. Once the business receives the items ( i.e., personnel at 
the company sign for the goods), the goods are no longer considered cargo because they are outside of the supply chain. Therefore, LEAs should not consider deliveries from UPS, FedEx, to 
individuals or other businesses (e.g., flowers, pizza, electronics, appliances, etc.) to be cargo because they are outside of the supply chain. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   70C
argo theft-related offenses are:  
As
 a result of APB recommendation to and 26 F = Identity Theft and 26G = Hacking /Computer 
Invasion  to the l ist of Cargo theft -related offenses , these offenses will become effective on 
January 1, 2019. 120 = R
obbery  
210 = Extortion/Blackmail 
220 = Burglary/Breaking and  Entering  
23D = Theft From Building  
23F = Theft From Motor Vehicle  
23H = All Other Larceny  
240 = Motor Vehicle Theft  
26A = False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game  
26B = Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine Fraud  
26C = Impersonation  
26E = Wire Fraud  
26F = Identity Theft  
26G = Hacking/Computer Invasion  
270 = Embezzlement  
510 = Bribery  
V
alid Data Values  
Y = Y
es 
N = N
o 
(Blank) = Not a Cargo T heft offense  
E
xample 
F
our men wearing ski masks conducted armed robbery at a trucking facility (UCR Offense Code 
120 Robbery). Two of the men held the guards at gunpoint while the other two men jumped 
into an idling truck nearby and drove off with the cargo. E
xample 
Fiv
e suspects entered a slow -moving freight train, which was transporting cargo from the 
freight yard to numerous destinations. The suspects used various tools to break into the shipping containers. The merchandise what then thrown off the train and accomplices on the ground gathered the stolen merchandise (UCR Code 2 20 Burglary/Breaking & Entering ). T
he following scenarios will be effective January 1, 2019. E
xample  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   71A s
ubject used a stolen commercial driver’s license with like characteristics to enter a trucking 
company (UCR Code 26F Identity Theft). After gaining  access to the building, the suspect drove 
away with the vehicle and the cargo within the trailer (UCR Off ense Code  220 Burglary/Breaking 
and Entering) . E
xample  
A
n unknown subject hacked into a shipping company’s computer system (UCR Offense Code 
26G Hacking/Computer Invasion)  and redirected the shipment to an alternate location. The 
cargo was unlawfully sei zed, by a group of unknown subjects on the docks of the alternate 
location across town (UCR Offense Code 23F Theft from Motor Vehicle). Ad
ditional cargo theft information and scenarios can be found in the Cargo Theft User Manual . Data Element 3 (Incident Date)  
L
EAs should use Data Element 3 ( Incident Date ) to enter the year, month, and day (YYY YMMDD) 
when the incident occurred or the beginning of the time period in which it occurred, as 
appropriate. This data element also includes the report date indicator (R = Report Date) and the 
hour of the incident  (00-23). LEAs should use the report date indicator to designate whether 
the date entered is the Report Date rather than the Incident Date. This data element is 
mandatory in each NIBRS submission. I
f the incident occurred on or between midnight and 0059, 00 should be entered; if on or 
between 0100 and 0159, 01 should be entered; if on or between 2300 and 2359, 23 should be entered; etc. If the incident occurred at exactly midnight, LEAs should consider it occ urred at 
the beginning of the next day, as if the crime occurred at 1 minute past midnight. Therefore, 
LEAs would enter 00 for the hour, along with the next day’s date. E
xample 1  
If
 a Robbery occurred at 9:30 p.m. on July 2, 201 5, the entry should be 20150702 21. E
xample 2  
If
 a Kidnapping started at 11:30 p.m. on November 1, 201 4, and ended on November 16, 201 4, 
the entry should be 20141101  23. E
xample 3  
If
 an incident occurred at midnight on December 31, 201 4, and January 1, 2015, the entry 
should be  20150101 00. E
xample 4  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   72I
f the date and hour of the incident are unknown  but the date of the report was  
March 15, 201 5, the entry should be 20150315R  with the R = Report Date entered after  the 
Report Date . D
ata Element 4 (Cleared Exceptionally)  
Da
ta Element  4 (Cleared Exceptionally ) indicates whether the LEA cleared the incident by 
exceptional means . In a multiple -offense incident, the exceptional clearance of one offense 
clears the entire incident. L
EAs must not confuse e xceptionally clearing an incident with administratively closing an 
investigation , and LEAs cannot clear  an incident  exceptionally if it was previously or is 
concurrently cleared by arrest  (i.e., if an Arrestee Segment (Level 6) was/ is submitted). V
alid Data Values  
A
 = Death of Offender  
B = Prosecution Declined (by the prosecutor for other than lack of probable cause)  
C = In Custody of Other Jurisdiction (includes extradition denied)  
D = Victim Refused to Cooperate (in the prosecution)  
E = Juvenile/No Cu stody (the handling of a juvenile without taking him/her into custody, but 
rather by oral or written notice given to the parents or legal guardian in a case involving a 
minor offense, such as petty larceny)  
N = Not Applicable (not cleared exceptionally)  
C
 = In Custody of Other Jurisdiction  
B
eginning January 1, 2011, agencies began us ing data value  C = In Custody of Other Jurisdiction  
for cases in which extraditions are formally denied or in circumstances where an offender committed offenses in two jurisdictions and was arrested in one of the jurisdictions. The LEA in 
the jurisdiction  not report ing the arrest should report this data value  when they become  aware 
of the arrest. N
 = Not Applicable  
I
f an incident was not cleared by either an arrest or exceptional means by the time an initial 
Group A Incident Report is submitted regarding it, then N = Not Applicable  should be entered. If, after a Group A Incident Report was submitted, an offender was arrested, the previously submitted report should be updated with an Arrestee Segment. Submitting an Arrestee 
Segment will automatically clear the incident. This data element should still contain  
N = Not Applicable.