To clear an offense by exceptional means, LEAs must meet ALL four of the following conditions: 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   731.T
he LEA investigation must have clearly and definitely established the identity of at least
one offender. 2.T
he LEA must have sufficient probable cause to support arresting, charging, and prosecuting
the offender. 3.T
he LEA must know the exact location of the offender so they could make an arrest  if
circumstances did not prevent it. 4.T
here must be a reason outside the control of the LEA  preventing  the arrest, charging, and
turning over for prosecution. (i.e., A through E ). E
xample 
A
 kidnapper , who was holding a hostage , killed himself when the building in which he 
barricaded himself  was surrounded by the police. The Kidnapping should be reported and 
cleared exceptionally by A = Death of Offender . D
ata Element 5 (Exceptional Clearance Date)  
LE
As use Data Element 5 ( Exceptional Clearance Date ) is used to enter the date the incident is 
cleared by exceptional means (YYYYMMDD). Data value s other than N = Not Applicable are  
entered in Data Element 4  (Cleared Exceptionally ). E
xceptional Clearance Offe nse Code  
E
xceptional Clearance Offense Code is a supplementary data element used to enter the original 
incident’s offense(s) to enable identification of the offense(s) the LEA is exceptionally clearing . LEAs use this data element only when Data Element 4 indicates they are clearing the incident 
exceptionally. D
ata Element 6 (UCR Offense Code)  
D
ata Element 6 ( UCR Offense Code ) is used to enter the data values of the ten most serious 
Group A offenses occurr ing in the incident  (as determined by the reportin g agency). A minimum 
of one Offense Segment must be included in a Group A Incident. In addition, LEAs should 
submit only one offense  for each reported UCR Offense Code even though there may have 
been mor e than one victim of the crime. LEAs can find a complete listing of Group A offenses in  
Section  2.3, Group A and Group B Offense Listing. L
EAs must report each offense if it is a separate, distinct crime, rather than just a part of 
another offense. For example, because every robbery includes an element of assault, agencies 
should report only the offense of R obbery. If during a R obbery, however, the offender forces 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   74t
he victim to engage in sexual relations , then the LEA should report both Robbery and R ape 
because forced sexual intercourse is not an element of robbery. Note:  The Robbery/assault example above contains “ lesser included ” offenses. Mutually 
exclusive offenses are offenses that cannot occur to the same victim according to UCR 
Definitions. Lesser included offenses are offenses where one offense is an element of another 
offense and cannot be reported as having happened to the victim along with the other offense. (For more information about mutually exclusive/lesser included offenses, refer to the NIBRS 
Technical Specification, Data Element 24 [Victim Connected to UCR Offense Code]). Dat
a Element 7 ( Offense Attempted/Completed)  
L
EAs should use Data Element 7 ( Offense Attempted/Completed) to indicate whether each 
offense in the incident was att empted or completed. When an offense occurs more than once 
within an incident and one of the instances was completed, then LEAs should consider all of the 
instances of the offense completed. Note :  Attempted Murder should be reported as Aggravated Assault, and all Assault o ffenses 
should be coded as C = Completed . V
alid Data Values  
A =
 At
tempted  
C = Completed  
D
ata Element 8 (Offender Suspected of Using)  
L
EAs should use Data Element 8 ( Offender Suspected of Using ) to indicate whether any of the 
offenders in the incident were suspected of consum ing alcohol or us ing drugs/narcotics during 
or shortly before the incident, or us ing computer equipment to perpetrate the crime. LEAs can 
enter up to three  types of activity per offense type  in Data Element 8 . A
s a result of the APB recommendation to collect Vehicular Manslaughter offenses under 
Negligent Mansl aughter, b eginning on January 1, 2019, (Handheld Devices) will be added to the 
end of C = Computer  Equipment. V
alid Data Values  
A =
 Alco
hol 
C = Computer Equipment  (Handheld Devices)  
D = Drugs/Narcotics  
N = Not Applicable  (Mutually Exclusive) 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   75A
s a result of the APB recommendation to collect Vehicular Manslaughter offenses under 
Negligent Manslaughter, the following scenarios will be effective January 1, 2019. E
xample  
A d
river swerved out of her lane into oncoming traffic, striking another vehicle. A passing 
motorist stopped and called 911. The responding officer asked the driver at fault  why she 
swerved  into the other lane;  she had no  recollect ion of  why she swerved into oncoming traffic. One of the passengers in the other vehicle passed away at the scene due to the injuries 
sustained during the crash. The officer observed the driver  at fault, talking and texting on her 
cell phone at the scene. He asked the driver if she had a hands -free device and the driver 
responded “no” to this question. T
he officer obtained the phone records of the driver and found a series of texts were sent and 
received immediately prior to the accident. The driver was arrested for negligent manslaughter 
due to driving distracted while using a cell/smartphone. In Data Element 8 (Offender Suspected of Using), data value C = Computer equipment (Handheld Devices) shou ld be scored. E
xample  
A
 police officer is stationed on the highway in a location known for speeding. He measures a 
vehicle traveling 12 mph an hour over the posted limit and attempts to pull the vehicle over. The vehicle attempts to evade the officer, increasing its speed and passing other vehicles on the 
left and right, includ ing driving on the shoulder of the road. During the pursuit, several vehicles 
attempting to enter the highway were required to pull off onto the shoulder to avoid striking 
the evading vehicle. During the pursuit, the vehicle exceeds 100 mph, which is 30 miles over the speed limit. The pursuit ended in a crash with another vehicle killing the driver in that vehicle. The crash is assessed to be the fault of the evading vehicle. The evading driver was injured but survived and was subsequently charged with Negligent Manslaughter as a result of reckless driving. The data value reported in Data Element 8 (Offender Suspected of Using), should be N – Not applicable  (Mutually Exclusive) . Dat
a Element 8A (Bias Motivation)  
D
ata Element 8A (Bias Motivation ) is used to indicate whether or not an offense was motivated 
by the offender’s bias and, if so, what type of bias . LEAs can enter up to five bias motivations 
per offense type. B
ecause o f the difficulty of ascertaining the offender’s subjective motivation, LEAs should 
report a bias motivation only if investigation reveals sufficient objective facts to lead a 
reasonable and prudent person to conclude the offender’s actions were motivated, in whole or in part, by bias against race /ethnicity/ancestry , religion, disability, gender, gender identity, or 
sexual orientation. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   76U
nless the bias for a hate crime falls into one of the  National UCR Program’s bias categories, an 
agency should report zero  hate crime data. LEAs should report zero hate crime data as data 
value 88 = None . In NIBRS, incidents not involving  any facts indicating  bias motivation on the 
part of the offender are to be reported as 88 = None , whereas incidents involving ambiguous 
facts (some facts are present but are not conclusive) should be reported as data value  
99 = Unknown . When an offense is initially classified as bias motivation 99 = Unknown and 
subsequent investigation reveals the crime was motivated by bias or no bias was found, the 
agency must update its original submission. V
alid Data Values  
B
ias Categories  
Race/Ethnicity/Ancestry  
11 = Anti -White  
12 = Anti -Black or African American  
13 = Anti -American Indian  or Alaska Native  
14 = Anti-Asian  
15 = Anti -Multiple Races, Group  
16 = Anti -Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander  
31= Anti -Arab  
32= Anti -Hispanic or Latino  
33= Anti-Other Race/Ethnicity/Ancestry  
Religio n 
21 = Anti -Jewish  
22 = Anti -Catholic  
23 = Anti -Protestant  
24 = Anti-Islamic (Muslim)  
25 = Anti -Other Religion  
26 = Anti -Multiple Religions, Group  
27 = Anti -Atheism/Agnosticism  
28= Anti -Mormon  
29= Anti -Jehovah’s Witness  
81= Anti -Eastern Orthodox  (Greek, Russian, etc.) 82= Anti -Other Christian  
83= Anti -Buddhist  
84= Ant i-Hindu 
85= Anti -Sikh 
Sex
ual Orientation  
41 = Anti -Gay (Male)  
42 = Anti -Lesbian  (Female)  
43 = Anti -Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, or Transgender (Mixed Group)  
44 = Anti -Heterosexual  
45 = Anti -Bisexual  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   77D
isability  
51 = Anti -Physical Disability  
52 = Anti -Mental Disability  
Gender  
61 = Anti -Male  
62 = Anti -Female  
Gender Identity  
71 = Anti -Transgender  
72 = Anti -Gender Non -Conforming  
No
ne/Unknown  
88 = None ( no bias) (Mutually Exclusive) 
99 = Unknown ( offender’s motivation not known)  (Mutually Exclusive)  
E
xample  1 
W
hile driving through a predominantly white neighborhood, a black male stopped his car to 
repair a flat tire. A group of white males leaving a bar across the street accosted the driver and 
then attacked him with bottles and clubs. During the attack, the offenders called the victim by a 
well-known and recognized epithet used against blacks and told him blacks were not welcome 
in the neighborhood. Offe
nse - Aggravated Assault. This incident should be reported with an Anti-Black  or African 
American Race/Ethnicity/Ancestry bias because  the victim and offender s were of different races ; 
the offenders used a racial epithet ; and the facts reveal no other reason for the attack than the 
stated one :  the offenders’ desire to keep blacks out of the neighborho od. E
xample 2  
A
 group home for persons with psychiatric disabilities who were in transition back into the 
community was the site of a reported arson. Investigation revealed that  neighbors had 
expressed many concerns about the group home  in town meetings  and were angry  that the 
house was located in their community. Shortly before the fire was reported, a witness heard a 
man state, “I’ll get rid of those ‘crazies ,’ I’ll burn them out.”  Twelve persons, including patients 
and staff, suffered second- and third -degree burns  resulting from the Arson . Offe
nses - Aggravated Assault (12 victims) and Arson (1 A rson). An Anti-Mental Disability  bias 
should be reported with this incident since  the suspect apparently committed the crime due to  
his bias against persons with psychiatric disabilities. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   78Ex
ample 3  
A juv
enile male snatched a Jewish woman’s purse , and in doing so, knocked her down and 
called her by a well -known and recognized epithet used against Jews. The offender’s identity  is 
not known . Although the offender used an epithet for Jews, it is not know n whether he belongs 
to another religious group or whether his motive was anything more than Robbery. Of
fense  - Robbery. Because the facts are ambiguous, agencies should not report this incident as 
bias-motivated unless the investigation positively concludes that the offender’s bias was a 
contributing factor in the crime. The offense should be reported as 99 = Unknown . Should an 
offender be arrested, subsequent investigation would determine whether or not the offense was 
bias motivated. T he offense should then be reported as either 88 = None  or the code for the 
appropriate bias motivation. Ex
ample 4  
Ov
ernight, unknown person(s) broke into a synagogue and destroyed several priceless relig ious 
objects. The perpetrators painted a large red swastika on the door and wrote “Death to Jews” 
on a wall. Although other valuable items were present,  none were stolen. Offe
nses - Burglary and Destruction/Damage/Vandalism of Property. This incident should be 
reported  with  an Anti-Jewish  religious bias because the offender (s) destroyed priceless religious 
objects  and left anti -Semitic words and graffiti behind, and theft did not appear to be the motive 
for the b urglary. Ex
ample 5  
In
 a parking lot next to a bar, a 29-year -old Japanese -American male  was attacked by a 51 -year 
old white male wielding a tire iron . The victim suffered severe lacerations and a broken arm. Investigation revealed  that the offender and victim had previously exchanged racial insults in 
the bar . The offender initiated the exchange by calling the victim by a well -known epithet used 
against the Japanese and complained  that the Japanese were taking jobs away from Americans. Of
fense –Aggravated Assault. An  Anti-Asian  Race/Ethnicity/Ancestry  bias should be reported 
with this incident  based on the difference in race of the victim and offender, the exchange of 
racial insults, and the absence of other reasons for the attack. E
xample 6  
So
meone threw a rock breaking a window in a Syrian -owned convenience store. The store had 
signs written in Arabic displayed in the window and outside the store. The rock, which had a disparaging message about the owner’s Arab ancestry, struck the owner in the head, which caused a gash requiring medical attention. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   79Of
fenses –Aggravated assault and Destruction/Damage/Vandalism of Property. This incident 
should be reported with an Anti -Arab Race/Ethnicity/Ancestry Bias since the evidence indicates 
the victim was targeted due to his ancestral descent. E
xample 7  
A
 street gang assaulted three Hindu men while shouting a well -known Hindu epithet. The gang 
beat them so severely each suffered a coma. Of
fense –Aggravated Assault (3 victims). This incident should be reported with an Anti -Hindu 
Religious Bias because the evidence indicates the victims were targeted due to their religious 
affiliation. E
xample 8  
An
 assailant ran by a Sikh pedestrian, shoved him to the ground, forcibly pulled his Dastaar 
(Sikh turban) and said, “Take that thing  off your head –we don’t want your kind in the 
neighborhood!” In the process of the attack, the victim suffered a concussion. When a law enforcement responded to the scene, a witness to the attack recognized the offender as a clerk at a local convenience store near a predominantly Sikh community. Offe
nse–Aggravated Assault. This incident should be reported with an Anti -Sikh Religious Bias 
because the evidence indicates the victim was targeted due to his Dastaar and the assailant’s 
ongoing dealings with the Sikh community. Data Element 9 ( Location Type ) 
L
EAs should use D ata Element  9 (Location Type)  to report the type of location/premises where 
each offense in an incident took place. T
he National UCR Program recognizes that for many incidents, there is more than one possible 
choice for reporting a location. Therefore, LE personnel should use their best judgment in 
reporting the most specific location type after investigating the crime and considering the 
circumstances surrounding the location and the offender’s intent during the commission of the 
crime. B
ecause the geographic location of an incident is not always the same as the functional location 
of the incident, the National UCR Program relies on LEAs to report the most appropriate 
location type. For example, if an offense occurs at an elementary school playground during 
school hours, the location can be classified as 53 = School – Elementary/Secondary. But, if the 
offense occurred at the same physical location on a Saturday afternoon when the school is not 
operating and the public are allowed to use the facility for recreational purposes, LEAs would be equally correct in classifying the location as  50 = Park/Playground. So
metimes, LEAs can determine the lo cation by the offender’s intent during the commission of 
the crime. For example, if the offender chose to commit a robbery during a church service held 
at a public facility routinely used for basketball games, LEAs can choose to classify the location 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   80as 04
 = Church/Synagogue/Temple/Mosque since the building was being used for a public 
religious activity at the time the crime was committed. Valid Data Value  Data Value Includes  
01 = Air/Bus/Train Terminal  airports; bus, boat, ferry, or train stations 
and te rminals  
02 = Bank/Savings and Loan  financial institutions, whether in a separate 
building or inside of another store  
N
ote: This data value does not include 
payday -lender type businesses  (see data 
value 24) . 03 = Bar/Nightclub  establishments primarily for entertainment, 
dancing, and the consumption of beverages  
04 = Church/Synagogue/Temple/Mosque  buildings for public religious activities, 
meetings, or worship  
05 = Commercial/Office Building  establishments that pertain to commerce 
and trade  
06 = Construction Site  all buildings/locations that are under some 
type of construction  
07 = Convenience Store  establishments primarily for convenience 
shopping, e.g., stores that include the sale 
of other items as well as gasoline  
08 = Department/Discount Store  establishments that are considered 
department stores and that sell a wide range of goods, etc. N
ote: LEAs should use the data value that 
best describes the location in question. 09 = Drug Store/Doctor’s Office/Hospital  medical supply companies and  buildings; 
stores that are primarily considered pharmacies; veterinary practices, veterinary hospitals, and medical practices  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   81Valid Data Value  Data Value Includes  
10 = Field/Woods  areas that are primarily open fields or 
wooded areas  
N
ote: This data value does not include 
parks. 11 = Government/Public Building  buildings primarily used for local, state, or 
federal offices or public businesses  
12 = Grocery/Supermarket  establishments primarily 
selling food items, etc. used for buying/ 
13 = Highway/Road/Alley/Street/Sidewalk  open publi c ways for 
vehicles, people, and the passage 
animals  of 
14 = Hotel/Motel/Etc. when  temporary lodging  of transients is the 
main purpose  
Note:  This data value does not include 
campgrounds or recreational vehicle parks. 15 = Jail/Prison/Penitentiary/Corrections Facility  places for the confinement of persons 
lawful detention or awaiting trial  in 
16 = Lake/Waterway/Beach shorelines, lakes, streams, canals, or bodies 
of water other than swimming pools  
17 = Liquor Store  estab lishments primarily used for buying 
and selling  alcoholic beverages  
18 = Parking/Drop Lot/Garage  areas  primarily used for parking motorized 
vehicles and/or trailers, usually but not 
always commercial in nature. A garage that is attached to or detached from a residence should be reported as residence  as a more 
specific location. 19 = Rental Storage Facili ty any mini -storage 
buildings  and/or self -storage 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   82Valid Data Value  Data Value Includes  
20 = Residence/Home  apartments, condominiums, townhouses, 
nursing homes, residential driveways, 
residential yards; extended/continuous care 
facilities  
N
ote: This data value refers to permanent 
residences . 21 = Restaurant  any commercial establishments that serve 
meals or refreshments; cafeterias  
22 = School / Institutions for the instructions of children 
from preschool through 12th grade and 
institutions for the higher education of individuals, which gives instruction in specialized fields; community colleges; trade schools  
N
ote: This data value was replaced by the 
following new location codes and is to be used only  by LEAs that have not adopted the 
new codes:  
52 =
 School – College/University  
53 = School – Elementary/Secondary  
23 = Service/Gas Station  establishments where motor vehicles are 
serviced and gasoline, oil, etc., are sold  
24 = Specialty Store  fur stores, jewelry stor es, music  stores, 
dress shops, and clothing stores, etc. ; payday -lender type businesses  
25 = Other/Unknown  any location that does not fit one of the 
other defined data values , or when the 
location of the incident is unknown  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   83Valid Data Value  Data Value Includes  
37 = Abandoned/Condemned Str ucture  buildings or structures that are completed 
but have been abandoned by the owner and 
are no longer being used  
Note:  This data value does not include 
vacant rental property. LEAs should use the 
data value that best describes the property 
in question,  e.g., vacant rental house should 
be classified as 20 = Residence/Home, vacant convenience store that is for rent should be classified as 07 = Convenience Store, etc. 38 = Amusement Park  indoor or outdoor, permanent or 
temporary,  movie theaters,  arcade,  
commercial enterprises that offer rides, games, and other entertainment  
39 = Arena/Stadium/Fairgrounds/Coliseum  open -air or enclosed amphitheater -type 
areas designed and used for the presentation of sporting events, concerts, assemblies, etc. 40 = ATM Separate from Bank  machines that provide the ability to make 
deposits and/or withdrawals using a bank card; ATM located inside a mall or store  
N
ote: LEAs should use 02 = Bank/Savings 
and Loan if the ATM is located at a banking facility. 41 = Auto Dealer ship New/Used  businesses specifically designed for selling 
new and used motor vehicles  
N
ote: This data value also includes the 
parking lots and garages of these facilities. 42 = Camp/Campground  areas used for setting up camps, including 
tent and recreational vehicle campsites  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   84Valid Data Value  Data Value Includes  
44 = Daycare Facility  facilities that provide short -term 
supervision, recreation, and/or meals for 
adults or children during the daytime or at 
night; respite care facilities for seniors or for physically or mentally challenged individuals  
45 = Dock/Wharf/Freight/Modal Terminal  separate facility with platforms at which 
trucks, ships, or trains load or unload cargo  
Note:   This data value does not include 
cargo bays attached to a department store or shopping mall. LEAs shoul d classify these 
as 08 = Department/Discount Store or  
55 = Shopping Mall, respectively. 46 = Farm Facility  facilities designed for agricultural 
production or devoted to the raising  and 
breeding of animals, areas of water devoted to aquaculture, and/or all building or storage structures located there; grain bins  
Note:  LEAs should classify the house on a 
farm as 20 = Residence/Home. 47 = Gambling Facility/Casino/Race Track indoor or outdoor facilities used to legally 
bet on the uncertain outcome of games of chance, contests, and/or races  
48 = Industrial Site  active manufacturing locations, factories, 
mills, plants, etc., specifically designed for the manufacturing of goods  
Note:   This data value does not include 
abandoned facilities. LEAs should c lassify 
these as 37 = Abandoned/Condemned 
Structure. 49 = Military Installation  locations specifically designed and used for 
military operations  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   85Valid Data Value  Data Value Includes  
50 = Park/Playground  areas of land set aside for public use usually 
maintained for recreational or ornament al 
purposes; soccer fields, baseball fields  
51 = Rest Area  designated areas, usually along a highway, 
where motorists can stop  
52 = School – College/University  institutions for the higher education of 
individuals, which gives instruction in 
specialized  fields; community colleges; trade 
schools  
53 = School – Elementary/Secondary  institutions for the instruction of children 
from preschool through 12th grade  
54 = Shelter – Mission/Homeless  establishments that provide temporary 
housing for homeless indi viduals and/or 
families; venues set up as temporary shelters  (i.e., a shelter set up in a church or 
school during a storm) 
55 = Shopping Mall  indoor or outdoor shopping areas and/or 
centers with multiple (two or more) stores and/or businesses; strip malls 
Note:  LEAs should use the data value that 
best describes the location in question. 56 = Tribal Lands  Native American reservations, communities, 
and/or trust lands  
Note:  The National UCR Program intends 
that non -tribal LEAs will primarily use this 
data value. Tribal agencies should use the 
data value that best describes the location 
in question. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   86Valid Data Value  Data Value Includes  
57 = Community Center  public locations where members of a 
community gather for group activities, soc ial 
activities, public information, and other 
purposes; they may sometimes be open for the whole community or for a specialized group within the greater community; Christian community center; Islamic community center; Jewish community center; youth clubs, etc. 58 = Cyberspace  a virtual or internet -based network of two 
or more computers in separate locations which communicate either through wireless 
or wire connections. E
xample 1  
P
olice received a phone call from an individual who reported he recently received a letter from 
a local business informing him the business’ computers were recently hacked from an external source and the customer’s personal information might have been compromised. The individual then reported he noticed someone had opened credit cards and other loans in his name. The agency should enter data value 26F = Identity Theft into Data Element 6 (UCR Offense Code), since the individual’s personal information had been taken from the victim business and new accounts had been opened in th e individual’s name. Because the data was obtained by the 
perpetrator through the use of the internet, data value 58 = Cyberspace should be entered into Data Element 9 (Location Type). Had the internet not been available, then this crime could not 
have been commented in the matter upon which it occurred. E
xample 2  
P
olice received a phone call from an individual who reported he recently received a letter from 
the Target Corporation, informing him that the business’ computers were recently stolen and 
the customer’s personal information may have been compromised. The individual then 
reported he noticed someone had opened credit cards and other loans in his name. The agency should enter data value 26F = Identity Theft into Data Element 6 (UCR Offense Code), since the individual’s personal information had been taken from the victim business and new accounts had been opened in the individual’s name. Data value 08 = Department/Discount Store should be entered into Data Element 9 (Location Type), since this incid ent is not cyberspace related. The fact the internet exists has nothing to do with the commission of this crime. E
xample 3  
P
olice received a phone call from a business that reported their computers were recently 
hacked based on information identified by their Information Technology staff. The business 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   87re
ported the hacking/invasion offense appeared to have come from an internet  address located 
in Iran. The LEA should enter data value 26G = Hacking/Computer Invasion into Data Element 6 
(UCR Offense Code). Data value 58 = Cyberspace should be entered into Data Element 9 (Location Type) because if cyberspace had not been available, this crime could not have been committed. E
xample 4  
P
olice received a phone call from a business that stated an employee had used his computer to 
download and steal trade secret information from the company. The company stated the individual did not have access to the information and fraudulently accessed the folders where the information was located. The LEA should enter data value 26G = Hacking/Computer Invasion into Data Element 6 (UCR Offense Code). Data value 05 = Commercial/Office Building shoul d be entered into Data Element 9 (Location Type). This incident is not cyberspace related.