T
he FBI’s UCR Program does not include Motor Vehicle Theft in the Larceny/ Theft offense 
category. Because of the great volume of such thefts, the FBI ’s UCR Program counts these 
offenses separately. Also, agencies should not classify embezzlement, fraudulent conversion of 
entrusted property, conversion of goods lawfully possessed by a bailee, counterfeiting , 
obtaining money by false pretenses, larceny by check , larceny by bailee, and check fraud as 
Larceny offenses. Each of the aforementioned crimes falls within other  offense categories. A
gencies should enter the type of property that was the object of the theft in Data 
Element 15 (Property Description). V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   3523A
 Pocket- picking  
T
he theft of articles from another person’s physical possession by stealth where the victim 
usually does not become immediately aware of the theft  
T
his type of theft includes removal of such items as wallets from women’s purses and men’s  
pockets and usually occurs in a crowded area or on public transportation to disguise the 
activity. Agencies should also classify a theft from a person in an unconscious state, including an 
individual who is drunk, as Pocket -Picking. Note:  If the offender manhandled the victim in any way or used force beyond simple jostling to 
overcome the victim’s resistance, the agency must classify the offense as a S trong -Arm 
Robbery. 23B
 Purse -snatching  
T
he grabbing or snatching of a purse, handbag, etc., from the physical possession of another 
person  
I
f the victim left a purse or other item of value unattended in a location which  was open to the 
general public and the item was subsequently stolen, the agency should classify the incident as 23D = Theft From Building, 23F = Theft From Motor Vehicle, or other appropriate Larceny 
category and not as a 23B = P urse -Snatching. Purse -Snatching only applies when the victim has 
physical possession of the item (i.e., it is on the victim’s person). Note:  If the offender used more force than was actually necessary  to snatch the purse from the 
grasp of the victim, or if the victim resists the theft in any way, then a S trong -Arm Robbery 
occurred rather than a Purse -Snatching. 23C
 Shoplifting  
T
he theft by someone other than an employee of the victim of goods or merchandise exposed 
for sale  
T
his violation assumes the offender had legal access to the premises, and thus, no trespass or 
unlawful entry was involved. This offense includes thefts of merchandise displayed as part of 
the stock in trade outside of buildings such as department stores, hardware stores, 
supermarkets, and fruit stands. 23D
 Theft From Building  
A
 theft from within a building which is either open to the general public or to which the 
offender has legal access  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   36T
hefts from Buildings include those from such places as churches, restaurants, schools, 
libraries, public buildings, and other public and professional offices during the hours when such 
facilities are open to the public. Agencies should not include S hoplifting and Thefts From Coin-
Operated Machines or D evices within open buildings , but should classif y these  as other specific 
larceny types. Fo
r example, if an individual invites another person to their home for a meal, and the other 
person steals  something from the home during the cours e of the meal, the incident should be 
classified as Theft From Building (the guest had every right to be in the home but they stole something from the home while they were there). Note:  LE should report a theft from a structure where the offender entered  the structure 
illegally, as burglary and not as larceny. 2
3E Theft From Coin -Operated Machine or Device 
A
 theft from a machine or device that is operated or activated by the use of coins  
T
his includes machines or devices that accept paper money as well as those which  accept coins. Examples include candy and food vending machines; telephone coin boxes; parking meters; pinball machines; or washers and dryers located in laundromats where no breaking or illegal 
entry of the building is involved. I
f an offender breaks into a building or illegally enters a building and rifles a coin -operated 
machine for money and/or merchandise, LE should classify this as Burglary. 23F
 Theft From Motor Vehicle  (except Theft of Motor Vehicle P arts or Accessories)  
T
he theft of articles from a motor vehicle, locked or unlocked 
T
his type of Larceny includes thefts from automobiles, trucks, truck trailers, buses, motorcycles, 
motor homes, or other recreational vehicles. It also includes thefts from any area in the 
automobile or other type of vehicle, e.g., the trunk, glove compartment, or other enclosure. Some of the items stolen in this type of theft are cameras, suitcases, apparel, packages, etc., 
that are not an integral part of the vehicle. A
gencies should not include items considered automobile accessories, as they fall under Theft 
of Motor Vehicle Parts and Accessories. For Larceny situations in which offenders steal both articles from the motor vehicle and motor vehicle parts and accessories, agencies should report Theft From Motor Vehicle and Theft of Motor Vehicle Parts and Accessories with each corresponding property type/loss; conversion of NIBRS data to Summary data will classify one type of larceny/theft based upon the higher loss va lue and combine the lesser with it. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   37Note :  As stated on page 32 of the NIBRS User Manual,  Version 1.0, dated January 17, 2013, 
“When multiple types of larceny/theft occur within a single incident, agencies should report all 
types of larceny/theft involved. LEAs should report multiple offenses because these offenses 
are not inherent.”    
C
ertain state statutes might interpret Thefts From Motor Vehicles as B urglaries. However, 
agencies must classify these offenses as larcenies for UCR purposes. If a Theft From a Motor 
Vehicle occurs in conjunction with a Motor Vehicle Theft, the agency will most often report the 
incident as a Motor Vehicle Theft and record the stolen property within the appropriate 
property -type categories. If, however, the reporting jurisdiction determines the real object of 
the theft was the contents, rather than the vehicle, it may report two offenses:  the Motor 
Vehicle Theft and the Theft From a Motor  Vehicle. F
or example, if an offender stole an automobile with a coat in the back seat,  the responding 
agency would report the offense as M otor Vehicle Theft and account for the coat as property 
stolen in connection with the automobile theft. Conversely, an agency could report the theft of 
a tractor- trailer (truck) containing a shipment of t elevisions as two offenses if, in the judgment 
of the reporting agency, the real object of the theft was the televisions, e.g., the truck was 
found abandoned and empty not far from the scene of the theft. In this situation, the LEA 
should also classify the  two offenses as Cargo Theft. 23G 
Theft of Motor Vehicle Parts or Accessories  
T
he theft of any part or accessory affixed to the interior or exterior of a motor vehicle in a 
manner which would make the item an attachment of the vehicle or necessary for it s 
operation  
T
his Larceny subcategory includes thefts of motors, transmissions, radios, heaters, hubcaps and 
wheel covers, manufacturers’ emblems, license plates, side -view mirrors, siphoned gasoline, 
built- in DVD players, mounted GPS devices,  catalytic converter, tires on car, etc. If such items 
were not part of the vehicle and were only being transported in the vehicle when  stolen, the 
reporting agency should classify the offense as T heft From a Motor Vehicle. 23H
 All Other Larceny  
A
ll thefts that do not fit any of the definitions of the specific subcategories of Larceny/Theft 
listed above  
A
ll Other Larceny includes thefts from fenced enclosures, boats (houseboats  if used for 
recreational purposes ), and airplanes. It also includes the illegal entry of a tent, tent trailer, or 
travel trailer used for recreational purposes, followed by a theft or attempted theft. Examples 
of items stolen from areas in which the offender did not break into a structure are thefts of animals, lawnmowers,  lawn furniture, hand tools, and farm and construction equipment. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   38Ag
encies should also classify instances that the offender takes gasoline from a self -service gas 
station and leaves without paying as All Other Larceny. 240 M
otor Vehicle Theft  
T
he theft  of a motor vehicle 
A
s defined by the National UCR Program, a motor vehicle is a self -propelled vehicle that runs on 
the surface of land and not on rails and that fits one of the following descriptions:  
•A
utomobiles —sedans, coupes, station wagons, conver tibles, taxicabs, or other similar
motor vehicles serv ing the primary purpose of transporting people
T
his classification also includes  minivans (which primarily transport people),  automobiles
used as taxis ; sport -utility vehicles, such as Explorers, Highlanders, 4Runners, Pathfinders,
and Hummers; and automobile derivative vehicles, such as Ranchero, El Camino, Caballero,
and Brat. •Bu
ses—motor vehicles specifically designed (but not necessarily used) to transport groups
of people on a commercial basis
•R
ecreational Vehicles —motor vehicles specifically designed (but not necessarily used) to
transport people and also provide them with temporary lodging for recreational purposes
•T
rucks —motor vehicles specifically designed (but not necessarily used) to tran sport cargo
on a commercial basis
P
ickup trucks and pickup trucks with campers should be classified as 37 = Trucks, as they
meet the definition specifically designed, but not necessarily used, to transport cargo. •O
ther Motor Vehicles –other motorized vehi cles, e.g., motorcycles, motor scooters, trail
bikes, mopeds, snowmobiles, all -terrain vehicles, or golf carts whose primary  purpose is to
transport people
U
sing the vehicle descriptions above, agencies should enter the type of motor vehicle in Data 
Eleme nt 15 (Property Description). Note:  LEAs should  classify f ull-size vans, both regular wheelbase and extended wheelbase, as 
buses, recreational vehicles, or trucks depending upon their configuration, e.g ., vans with rows 
of seats (buses), custom vans with  temporary lodging accommodations (recreational vehicles), 
and work vans with primarily cargo areas (trucks). Ag
encies should report incidences of c arjacking as 120 = R obbery, with the type of vehicle taken 
(automobile, truck, etc.) identified in the property description. The offense of  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   39240 =
 Motor Vehicle Theft is not to be identified as an additional offense, as the stolen motor 
vehicle is the proceeds of the offense of robbery, and not a separate, distinct operation. Consequently, Data Element 18 (Num ber of Stolen Motor Vehicles) and Data Element 19 
(Number of Recovered Motor Vehicles) are not used. Wh
en the offender takes a motor vehicle from the garage of a house  during a B urglary, the LEA 
should report the offense as 220 = B urglary/ Breaking & E ntering  and should identify the type of 
vehicle taken (automobile, truck, etc.) in the property description. The offense 240 =  Motor 
Vehicle Theft is not to be identified as an additional offense because the stolen motor vehicle is the proceeds of the b urglary, and not a separate, distinct operation. Consequently, Data 
Element 18 (Number of Stolen Motor Vehicles) and Data Element 19 (Number of Recovered Motor Vehicles) are not used. A
gencies should classify incidents as Motor Vehicle Theft when  persons not having lawful 
access take automobiles even if the vehicles were later abandoned, e.g., joyriding . Agencies 
should not include the taking of a vehicle for temporary use when prior authority has been granted or can be assumed, such as in family situations; or unauthorized use by chauffeurs and others having lawful access to the vehicle. Other Group A offenses may have occurred in these 
situations. For example, if a chauffeur steals a car entrusted to his care, the responding agency 
should report e mbezzlement. Note:  Motor Vehicle Thefts do not include farm equipment (tractors, combines, etc. ), that falls 
under a separate property description. 370 P
ornography/Obscene Material  
T
he violation of laws or ordinances prohibiting the manufacture, publis hing, sale, purchase, 
or possession of sexually explicit material, e.g., literature or photographs  
LE m
ust enter up to three of the type s of activity (manufacturing, publishing, selling, buying, or 
possessing) into Data Element  12 (Type Criminal Activity/Gang Information ). 40A
 – 40C Prostitution Offenses  
T
o unlawfully engage in or promote sexual activities for anything of value  
40A
 Prostitution  
T
o engage in commercial sex acts for anything of value  
T
his offense involves prostitution by both males and females. 40B
 Assisting or Promoting Prostitution  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   40T
o solicit customers or transport persons for prostitution purposes; to own, manage, or 
operate a dwelling or other establishment for the purpose of pro viding a place where 
prostitution is performed; or to otherwise assist or promote prostitution  
40C P
urchasing Prostitution 
T
o purchase or trade anything of value for commercial sex acts  
120 R
obbery  
T
he taking or attempting to take anything of value under confrontational circumstances from 
the control, custody, or care of another person by force or threat of force or violence and/or 
by putting the victim in fear of immediate harm  
R
obbery involves the offender taking or attempting to take something of value from a victim, 
usually the property owner or custodian, by the use of force or threat of force. (The victim must 
be present.) If there is no direct confrontation and the victim is not in fear of immediate harm, 
LE should report Extortion. Though dir ect confrontation occurs in P ocket-P ickings or P urse -
Snatchings, force or threat of force is absent. However, if during a P urse -Snatching or other 
such crime, the offender uses force or threat of force to overcome the active resistance of the victim, LE should classify the offense as Ro bbery. LE s
hould classify cases involving pretend weapons or those in which the robber claims to 
possess a weapon but the victim does not see it as R obbery and report the alleged weapon. If 
an immediate on -view arrest proves  there was no weapon, the agency should classify the 
offense as Robbery and report the weapon with the data value “None.”  
B
ecause assault is an element of R obbery, LE should not report an assault as a separate crime 
as long as the offender committed the assault in furtherance of the R obbery. However, if the 
injury results in death, LE must also report a h omicide offense. As
 in the case of all C rimes Against Property, LE should report only one offense for each distinct 
operation  of Robbery, regardless of the number of victims involved. However, the victims of a 
Robbery include not only those persons and other entities (businesses, financial institutions, 
etc.) from whom property was taken (or was attempted to be taken), but also those persons toward whom the robber(s) directed force or threat of force in perpetrating the offense. Therefore, although the primary victim in a bank robbery would be the f inancial institution, LE 
should report as a victim the teller toward whom the robber pointed a gun and made a demand, as well as any other person against whom the offender committed an assault during the course of the R obbery. LE s
hould enter the type of weapon/force used (or threatened) and the resulting injury in Data 
Element 13 (Ty pe Weapon/Force Involved) and Data Element 33 (Type Injury). Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         41  11A – 11D Sex Offenses  
 
Any sexual act directed against another person, without the consent of the victim, including 
instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent   11A Rape  (except Statutory Rape)  
 The carnal knowledge of a person, without the consent of the victim, including instances 
where the victim i s incapable of giving consent  because of his/her age or because of his/her 
temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity  
 
Agencies should classify the crime as R ape, regardless of the age of the victim, if the victim did 
not consent or if the victim was incapable of giving cons ent. If the victim consented, the 
offender did not force o r threaten the victim, and the victim was under the statutory age of 
consent, agencies should classify the crime as statutory rape . Black’s Law Dictionary , 6th ed., defines carnal knowledge  as “the  act of a man having sexual 
bodily connections with a woman; sexual intercourse.”  There is carnal knowledge  if there is the 
slightest penetration of the sexual organ of the female (vagina) by the sexual organ of the male (penis). However, for UCR purposes,  this offense includes the rape of both males and females 
as long as at least one of the offenders is the opposite sex of the victim. In cases where several offenders rape one person, the responding agency should count one 
Rape (for one victim) and report  separate offender information for each offender. 11B Sodomy  
 Oral or anal sexual intercourse with another person, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her age or because of his/her temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity  
 If the offender both raped and sodomized the victim in one incident, then LEAs should report 
both offenses. 11C Sexual Assault With An Object  
 
To use an object or instrument to unlawfully penetrate, however slightly, the genital or anal 
opening of the body of another person, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her age or because of his/her temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity  
 An “object” or “instrument” is anything used by the offender other than the offender’s genitalia, e.g., a finger, bottle, handgun, stick. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   4211D
 Fondling  
T
he touching of the private body parts of another person for the purpose of sexual 
gratification, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is 
incapable of giving consent because of his/her age or  because of his/her temporary or 
permanent mental or physical incapacity  
36A – 36B Sex Offenses , Non-Forcible  
U
nlawful, n on-forcible  sexual intercourse  
36A
 Incest  
Non-F
orcible  sexual intercourse between persons who are related to each other within the 
degrees wherein marriage is pro hibited by law  
36B
 Statutory Rape  
Non-F
orcible  sexual intercourse with a person who is under the statutory age of consent 
The
re is no force or coercion used in Sta tutory Rape; the act is not an attack. LEAs should 
classify an offense as S tatutory Rape based on the state’s Statutory Rape laws and the findings 
of the LE investigation. 280 S
tolen Property Offenses  
R
eceiving, buying, selling, possessing, concealing, or transporting any property with the 
knowledge that it has been unlawfully taken, as by burglary, embezzlement, fraud, larceny, 
robbery, etc. R
eporting agencies must  enter at least one but no more than three  type s of activity (receiving, 
buying, selling, possessing, concealing, and/or transporting) in Data Element  12 (Type Criminal 
Activity/Gang Information ). 520 
Weapon Law Violations  
T
he violation of laws or ordinances prohibiting the manufacture, sale, purchase, 
transportation, possession, concealment, or use of firearms, cutting instruments, explosives, incendiary devices, or other deadly weapons  
T
his offense includes violations such as the manufacture, sale, or possession of deadly 
weapons; carrying deadly weapons, concealed or openly; using, manufacturing, etc., silencers; and furnishing deadly weapons to minors. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   43R
eporting agencies should enter the type of activity (manufacturing, buying, selling, 
transporting, possessing, concealing, or using) in Data Element 12 (Type Criminal Activity/Gang 
Information) and the type of weapon in Data Element 13 (Type Weapon/Force Involved). G
roup B Offenses  
T
here are 1 0 Group B crime categories encompass ing offenses  not considered Group A  
offenses. The offense  categories listed  below are in alphabetical order. Each entry includes the 
following information :  
•N
IBRS offense code,  offense name
•Definition
•Considerations and examples (as appropriate)
90A
 Bad Checks  (except Counterfeit Checks or Forged Checks)  
Kno
wingly and intentionally writing and/or negotiating checks drawn against insufficient or 
nonexistent funds  
T
his offense  includes insufficient funds checks but not counterfeit checks or forged checks , e.g., 
250 = C ounterfeiting/ Forgery . 90B
 Curfew/Loitering/Vagrancy Violations  
T
he violation of a court order, regulation, ordinance, or law requiring the withdrawal of 
person s from the streets or other specified areas; prohibiting persons from remaining in an 
area or place in an idle or aimless manner; or prohibiting persons from going from place to place without visible means of support  
T
his offense includes begging , vagabon dage, and panhandling , etc. 90C
 Disorderly Conduct  
A
ny behavior that tends to disturb the public peace or decorum, scandalize  the community, 
or shock the public sense of morality  
T
his offense includes affray (when not physical), blasphemy, profanity, obscene language, 
disturbing the peace, indecent exposure, loud music, and public nuisance. 90D
 Driving Under the Influence  
Driving or operating a motor vehicle or common carrier while mentally or physically impaired as the result of consuming an alcohol ic beverage or using a drug or narcotic  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   44T
his offense includes driving while intoxicated and operating a n airplane, boat,  bus, streetcar, 
train, etc., while under the influence. 90E Drunkenness  (except Driving Under the Influence)  
T
o drink alcoholic beverages to the extent that one’s mental faculties and physical 
coordination are substantially impaired  
T
his offense includes drunk and disorderly, common drunkard, habitual drunkard, and 
intoxication. 9
0F Family Offenses, Nonviolent  
U
nlawful, nonviolent acts by a family member (or legal guardian) that threaten the physical, 
mental, or economic well -being or morals of another family member and that are not 
classifiable as other offenses, such as Assault, Incest, and Statutory Rape  
Non
violent Family Offenses include abandonment, desertion, neglect, nonsupport, nonviolent 
abuse, and nonviolent cruelty to other family members. This category also includes the 
nonpayment of court -ordered alimony, as long as it is not illegal (i.e., consid ered to be 
contempt of court) within the reporting jurisdiction. Agencies should not include the victims of 
these offenses taken  into custody for their own protection. 90G L
iquor Law Violations  (except Driving Under the Influence and Drunkenness)  
T
he vio lation of laws or ordinances prohibiting the manufacture, sale, purchase, 
transportation, possession, or use of alcoholic beverages  
L
iquor Law Violations include violations of laws/ordinances prohibiting the maintenance of 
unlawful drinking places; operating without a liquor license; underage drinking; furnishing 
liquor to a minor; bootlegging; operating a still; using a vehicle for the illegal transportation of 
liquor; etc. 90H
 Peeping Tom  
T
o secretly look through a window, doorway, keyhole, or ot her aperture for the purpose of 
voyeurism  
90J
 Trespass of Real Property  
T
o unlawfully enter land, a dwelling, or other real property  
All Bur
glary offenses include the element of trespass. Trespassing, however, involves entry with 
no intent to commit a felony or theft. Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         45  90Z All Other Offenses  
 
All crimes that are not Group A offenses and not included in one of the specifically named Group B crime categories listed previously  
 This category includes Offenses of General Applicability if the substantive offe nse is a Group A 
offense  unless it is an integral component of the Group A offense such as human trafficking . Offenses of General Applicability are those offenses prefixed by “Accessory Before/After the 
Fact,” “Aiding and Abetting,” “Assault to Commit,” “Conspiracy to Commit,”  “Enticement,”  
“Facilitation of,” “Solicitation to Commit,” “Threat to Commit,” or any other prefix identifying it 
as other than the substantive offense. Generally, this category excludes traffic offenses. However, the vehicle -related  offenses of H it 
and Run (of a person) and V ehicular Manslaughter, along with Driving Under the Influence, 
which is a separate Group B offense, have their own categories. Hit and R un (of a person) and 
Vehicular Manslaughter incidents could be Group A or Group B offenses depending on the 
circumstances of the incidents. Driving Under the Influence offenses should be classified as the Group B offense of 90D = Driving Under the Influence. 2.5 Offense Lookup Table  
 Once LE has classified offenses involved in an incident according to its own offense definitions, 
they should use the Offense Lookup Table to determine  whether the offenses are Group A or 
Group B offenses in NIBRS. The Offense Lookup Table lists various types of  crime, whether the 
crime is a Group A or Group B offense, and the NIBRS crime category covering the offense. For 
example, the crime of A bduction is listed as a Group A offense covered by the crime category 
Kidnapping/ Abduction. In addition, the table includes the notational reminder “Other offenses 
may have been committed” for crimes most likely to involve companion offenses.