AQ = Victim Was Acquaintance  
FR = Victim Was Friend  
NE = Victim Was Neighbor  
BE = Victim Was the B aby/ Child in the care of a Babysitter  
BG = Victim Was Boyfriend/Girlfriend  
CF = Victim Was Child of Boyfriend or Girlfriend  
XS = Victim Was Ex -Spouse  
EE = Victim Was Employee  
ER = Victim Was Employer  
OK = Victim Was Otherwise Known  
 Not Known By Victim  
 RU = Relationship Unknown  
ST = Victim Was Stranger  
 Other  
 VO = Victim Was Offender  
 The agency should use the Victim Was Offender category  when  a participant in the incident was  
a victim and offender in the incident, such as domestic disputes where both husband and wife are charged with assault, double murders (two people kill each other), or barroom brawls where many participants are arrested. When reporting these data, the LEA should keep in mind they should report the relationship of 
the victim to each offender . Note:  Not Known to Victim Clarification – Unknown is to be used when the relationship 
between the victim and offender has not been established. Stranger is used when it is known 
the victim did not know the offender. Example 1  
 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         129  A fraternity was hosting a party  when an altercation broke out. The victim was physically 
assaulted by his fraternity brother and nine  acquaintances. The LEA should enter the 
information for the brother and nine  of the offenders who were acquaintances. Example 2  
 An employee assaulted his employer with his fists. The LEA should report  
ER = Victim Was Employer. Example 3  
 Two unknown subjects  wearing masks and gloves  rob a male and female couple. The victims 
could not identify the age, sex, and race of the subjects. The LEA should repor t  
RU = Relationship Unknown to indicate the relationship of each victim to each offender. Data Element 36 (Offender Sequence Number)  
 The reporting agency should assign each offender in an incident a sequence number from  
01 to 99 using Data Element 36 . If the agency knows nothing about the offender(s),  the agency 
should report 00 = Unknown Offender . Valid Data Values  
 01 – 99 
00 = Unknown Offender  
 
Note:   If an LEA has already assigned sequence numbers because the offenders perpetrated a 
Crime Against  Person or Robbery, the LEA must use the same numbers. Example 1  
 An LEA investigated an incident involving a corpse with five bullet holes who was found in an 
abandoned warehouse. There were no witnesses to the crime or suspects. Data Element 36 
(Offende r Sequence Number) should contain 00 = Unknown Offender. Example 2  
 A witness saw t wo offenders fleeing the scene of a Burglary, but because the  burglars  were 
wearing ski masks, the  witness could not determine their age, sex, or race. The reporting 
agency should enter offender information for both offenders Data Element 36 (Offender 
Sequence Number) , that contain 01 and 02, and LEAs should report  applicable data values in 
Data Elements 37  (Age of Offender) , Data Element  38 (Sex of Offender) , and  Data Eleme nt 39 
(Race of Offender) for each offender. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   130D
ata Element 37 (Age of Offender)  
D
ata Element 37 —Age of Offender —indicates the age or age range of an offender in an incident. V
alid Data Values  
0
1 – 98 = Years Old  
99 = Over 98 Years Old  
00 = Unknown 
Example  
I
f the victim or a witness reported the offender ’s age as between 25 and 30 years old, the LEA 
should report 2530 (i.e., 25 to 30 years old ) into Data Element 37 (Age of Offender) . D
ata Element 38 (Sex of Offender)  
D
ata Element 38 —Sex of Offend er—indicates the gender of an offender  in an incident. V
alid Data Values  
F
 = Female  
M = Male  
U = Unknown 
Dat
a Element 39 (Race of Offender ) 
D
ata Element 39 —Race of Offender —indicates the race of an offender  in an incident. V
alid Data Values  
W =
 White  
B = Black or African American  
I = American Indian or Alaska Native  
A = Asian  
P = Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 
U = Unknown 
T
he definitions of the r acial designations are:  
W
hite—A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Euro pe, the Middle East, or 
North Africa  
B
lack or African American —A person having origins in any of th e black racial groups of Africa  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   131Ame
rican Indian or Alaska Native —A person having origins in any of the original peoples of 
North and South America (including Central America) and who maintains tribal affiliation or 
community attachment  
As
ian—A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, the 
Indian subcontinent  including , for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, 
Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam  
N
ative Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander —A person having origins in any of the original peoples 
of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands, e.g., individuals who  are Carolinian, Fijian, 
Kosraean, Melanesian, Micronesian, Northern Mariana Islander, Palauan, Papua New Guinean, 
Ponapean (Pohnpelan), Polynesian, Solomon Islander, Tahitian, Tarawa Islander, Tokelauan, Tongan, Trukese (Chuukese), and Yapese. Note:  The term “N ative Hawaiian” does not include individuals who are native to the state of 
Hawaii simply by virtue of being born there. Dat
a Element 39A ( Ethnicity of Offender ) 
D
ata Element 39A —Ethnicity of Offender —indicates the ethnicity of an offender in an incident. This is an optional data element . V
alid Data Values  
H
 = Hispanic or Latino  
N = Not Hispanic or Latino  
U = Unknown 
T
he ethnic designation of Hispanic or Latino  include s persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, 
Central or South American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. D
ata Element 40 (Arrestee Sequence Number)  
T
he LEA should assign e ach arrestee reported in a Group A Incident Report or Group B A rrest 
Report a sequence number (Data Element 40) from 01 to 99. E
xample 
I
f two persons were arrested in connection with a Group A offense, the LEA sh ould report two 
sets of arrest information. D
ata Element 41 (Arrest Transaction Number)  
An LEA assigns an Arrest Transaction Number (Data Element 41) to an arrest report to uniquely 
identify the arrest report . The Arrest Transaction Number  may be the incident number of the 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         132  previously reported incident relating to the arrest or a separate arrest  transaction number. The 
number may be up to 12 characters in length. For Group B offenses, LEA s can report data about multiple arrestees under the same Arrest 
Transaction Number. The FBI will use ORI, Arrest Transaction Number, and the Arrestee 
Sequence  Number to uniquely identify the arrestees. Data Element 42 (Arrest Date)  
 
The Arrest Date (Data Element 42) is the date (year, month, and day  [YYYYMMDD]) of an arrest. Data Element 43 (Type of Arrest)  
 LEAs should use Data Element 43  to indicate the type of apprehension (at the time of initial 
contact with the arrestee). Valid Data Values  
 LEA should e nter only one  per arrestee : 
 O = On-View Arrest ( apprehension without a warrant or previous incident report)  
S = Summoned/Cited (not taken into custody)  
T = Taken Into Custody (based on a warrant and/or previously submitted incident report)  
 Example 1  
 An LEA without a warrant arrested a woman who  was soliciting for P rostitution on a street 
corner. The agency should enter  O = On -View Arrest. Example 2  
 
An officer served a man with a subpoena summoning him to appear in court. The agency should 
enter S = Summoned/Cited. Example 3  
 
A citizen filed a complaint. The LEA then investigated the incident and, based on a warrant, took 
the offender into custody. The LEA should report T = Taken Into Custody for Type of Arrest. Data Element 44 (Multiple Arrestee Segments Indicator)  
 The Multiple Arrestee Segments Indicator  (Data Element 44)  ensures  that an LEA counts the 
arrestee only once when the  arrest is related to multiple incidents. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   133The
 reporting agency should enter C = Count Arrestee for one incident in the Multiple Arrestee 
Segments Indicator and M = Multiple in this data element for all of the remaining incidents. If a 
suspect’s arrest did not clear addition al incidents, the entry should be N = Not Applicable. V
alid Data Values  
L
EAs should enter only one per arrestee per incident : 
C
 = Count Arrestee  
M = Multiple  
N = Not Applicable  
E
xample 
A
fter a n LEA apprehend ed a robbery suspect, the LEA learned  that t he suspect was also 
responsible for five additional robberies within the jurisdiction. The agency should enter  
C = Count Arrestee for the robbery using the Multiple Arrestee Segments Indicator and  
M = Multiple in this data element for all of the remainin g robberies. D
ata Element 45 (UCR Arrest Offense Code)  
T
he UCR Arrest Offense Code  (Data Element 45)  identifies the offense for which the LEA 
arrest ed an offender. An LEA can arrest an offender for any of the Group A or Group B offenses 
with the excepti on of 09C = Justifiable Homicide . If an LEA apprehends an arrestee for more 
than one offense, the reporting agency must determine the most serious offense and enter it  as 
the arrest offense. A
n agency can report a  Group B offense for Group A Incident Repo rts, as long as the reporting 
agency determined that the Group B offense was  the most serious arrest offense. Any arrest 
(regardless of arrest offense reported) made in connection with a Group A incident will result in 
its clearance. E
xample 1  
If
 an LEA arrests an offender for both Robbery and M urder, the y should report 
09A = Murder and N on-Negligent Manslaughter , the more serious offense. E
xample 2  
A
n LEA arrest s an offender for DUI, a Group B offense. They subsequently determined the 
arrestee had been involved in a previously reported R obbery. The LEA should report the arrest 
offense for the Robbery as 90D = Driving Under the Influence. The agency would not have to 
submit a Group B Arrest Report. Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         134  Data Element 46 (Arrestee Was Armed With)  
 
An agency should use Data Element 46  to indicate whether they arrested an offender in 
possession of a commonly  known weapon at the time of his/her arrest. Valid Data Values  
 LEAs may  enter up to two:  
 
01 = Unarmed  
11 = Firearm (type not stated)  
12 = Handgun  
13 = Rifle  
14 = Shotgun  
15 = Other Firearm  
16 = Lethal Cutting Instrument (e.g., switchblade knife or martial arts stars)  
17 = Club/Blackjack/Brass Knuckles  
 
Note:   The FBI defines a n automatic firearm as any firearm that shoots, or is designed to shoot, 
more than one shot at a time by a single pull of the trigger without manual reloading. If the 
weapon was an automatic firearm, an A  should be reported in the Automatic Weapon 
Indicator , e.g., 13A = Automatic Rifle. Do not include semi -automatic as a n automatic weapon. Example 1  
 When a n LEA arrested a man, he had in his possession a .357 -caliber revolver and a penknife. The entry should be 12 = Handgun. Because LE does not generally consider a small pocket knife 
to be a we apon  (unless used in that manne r), the LEA  should not report it. Example 2  
 An LEA arrested a female who resisted the arrest using a liquor bottle and a chair as weapons 
before being subdued. The entry should be 01 = Unarmed. Although the subject used items as 
weapons, the  FBI does not consider the weapons used in this incident as weapons that are 
commonly in possession of. Data Element 4 7 (Age of Arrestee)  
 Data Element 47 —Age of Arrestee —indicates the age or age range of an arrestee in an incident. Valid Data Values  
 01 – 98 = Years Old  
99 = Over 98 Years Old  
00 = Unknown 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         135   
Example 1  
 The arrestee refused to give his date of birth  at time of arrest , but he appeared to be between 
35 and 40 years old. The LEA can report either 00 = Unknown or 3540 (i.e., 35 to 40 years old). Data Element 48 (Sex of Arrestee)  
 Data Element 48 —Sex of Arrestee —indicates the gender of an arrestee in an incident. Valid Data Values  
 F = Female  
M = Male  
 
Data Element 49 (Race of Arrestee)  
 
Data Element 49 —Race of Arrestee —indicates the race of an arrestee in an incident. Valid Data Values  
 W = White  
B = Black or African American  
I = American Indian or Alaska Native   
A = Asian  
P = Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander  
U = Unknown 
 The definitions of the r acial designations are:  
 
White —A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East, or 
North Africa  
 
Black  or African American —A person having origins in any of th e black racial groups of Africa  
 
American Indian or Alaska Native —A person having origins in any of the original peoples of 
North and South America (including Central America) and who maintains tribal affiliation or 
community attachment  
 
Asian —A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, the 
Indian subcontinent  including , for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, 
Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam  
 
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander —A person having origins in any of the origina l peoples 
of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands, e.g., individuals who  are Carolinian, Fijian, 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         136  Kosraean, Melanesian, Micronesian, Northern Mariana Islander, Palauan, Papua New Guinean, 
Ponapean (Pohnpelan), Polynesian, Solomon Islander, Tahitian, Tarawa Islander, Tokelauan, Tongan, Trukese (Chuukese), and Yapese. Note:  The term “Native Hawaiian” does not include individuals who are native to the state of 
Hawaii simply by virtue of being born there. Data Element 50 ( Ethnicity of Arrestee) 
 Data Element 50 —Ethnicity of Arrestee —indicates the ethnicity of an arrestee in an incident. This is an optional data element . Valid Data Values  
 H = Hispanic or Latino  
N = Not Hispanic or Latino  
U = Unknown 
 
The ethnic designation of Hispanic or Latino  include s persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, 
Central or South American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. Data Element 51 (Resident Status of Arrestee)   
 LEAs should use Data Element 51 —Resident  Status of Arrestee —to indicate whether the 
arrestee was a resident or nonresident of the jurisdiction  that the incident occurred. T his is an 
optional data element. Valid Data Values  
 N = Nonresident 
R = Resident  
U = Unknown 
 
Note:   Resident Status does not refer to the immigration or national citizenship status of the 
individual. Instead, it identifies whether individuals are residents or nonresidents of the 
jurisdiction in which the incident occurred. It also enables agencies having  a high transient 
population to show their population at risk is actually higher than their official resident 
population. A resident is a person who maintains his/her permanent home for legal purposes in the locality (town, city, or community) where the c rime took place. Reporting agencies should base their 
determinations of residency on the town, city, or community where the crime occurred rather than their broader geographical jurisdictions. In regard to  university/college campuses, only 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   137p
ersons living o n campus (in dormitories, etc.) would be considered residents if victimized 
within the confines of the school property; a campus LEA should report the crime. Example 1  
A man
 was arrested for a crime that  occurred in Phoenix, Arizona, and the arrestee mai ntained 
his legal residence in the city; therefore , the entry should be R = Resident. E
xample 2  
T
he crime occurred in Washington, D.C., but the arrestee maintained his legal residence in 
Alexandria, Virginia. The entry should be N = Nonresident. Dat
a Element 52 (Disposition of Arrestee Under 18)  
L
EAs should use Data Element 52 —Disposition  of Arrestee Under 18 —to report the nature of 
an arrestee’s detention if the arrestee was 17 years of age or younger at the time of the arrest. The word arrest  as it applies to juveniles is intended to mean the LE handling of those juveniles 
who have committed a crime and are taken into custody under such circumstances that, if the 
juvenile were an adult, an arrest would have been reported. De
pending on the seriousness  of the offense and the offender’s prior criminal record, this can 
include a warning by the police with the juvenile being released to parents, relatives, friends, or 
guardians. Or, LEAs may refer juveniles to the probation department or some other branch of 
the juvenile court; to welfare agencies; to other LEAs ; or, in the case of serious offenders, to 
criminal or adult court by waiver of juvenile court. Therefore, LEAs should include not only 
arrests in the usual sense, but an LEA should report any situation where they handle/process a 
young person for a violation of the law , in lieu of an actual arrest  (e.g., summon s, citation , or 
notification to appear before a juvenile or youth court or similar authority ). A
gencies should not record inciden ts of p olice contacts with juveniles where no offense has 
been committed (e.g., instructing children to move their ballgame from the street to the playground) and instances where juveniles are taken into custody for their own protection (i.e., the juvenile’s welfare is endangered). In addition, LEAs should not report as arrests callbacks or 
follow -up contacts with young offenders by officers for the purpose of determining their 
progress, since the FBI inte nds these statistics to measure LE problems, not juvenile court 
activity. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   138V
alid Data Values  
R
egarding dispositions of individuals under age 18, LEAs should e nter only one  per arrestee : 
H = H
andled Within Department (released to parents, released with warning, etc.) R = Referred to Other Authorities (turned over to juvenile court, probation department, welfare 
agency, other police agency, criminal or adult court, etc.) J
uvenile Arrest Reporting  
T
he FBI ’s UCR Program does not collect the identities of individuals. Therefore, laws or 
regulations pertaining to the confidential treatment of the identity of juvenile offenders do not preclude the collection of arrest information for FBI ’s UCR Program purposes or an agency’s 
administrative use. I
n a situation where juvenile records are not readily available because the  LEA keeps them in a 
juvenile bureau, youth bureau, or other special office, statistical compilation problems involving juveniles can normally be resolved in one of the following ways:  
1.T
he agency can route the arrest report (or copy) by juvenile or youth offices through the
main records operation so they can retrieve the necessary information. 2.T
he agency can route a statistical slip showing the required NIBRS information , but not the
name of the juvenile , to the employee who prepares NIBRS arrestee reports. E
xample 1  
An L
EA arrested a 13-year -old for vandalizing a school and released the juvenile to his parents 
with a warning. The entry should be H = Handled Within Department. E
xample 2  
A
n LEA arrested a 17-year -old for M urder and turned the juvenile over to the adult court for 
trial as an adult. The entry should be R = Referred to Other Authorities. Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         139  5 Processes and Procedures  
 
5.1 Implementation Procedures  
 
This section addresses current management considerations at the agency  (both UCR Program 
and local LEA) and national levels for implementing conversion from the SRS to an incident -
based reporting ( IBR) system. In the interim, submitting the SRS along with NIBRS data will be 
required until an agency is fully certified for NIBRS reporting. Following transition of the UCR Program to a NIBRS- only data collection  (that is, January 1, 2021), LEAs will no longer be 
required  to submit SRS data during the certification process. General Information  
 
When a n agency has implemented an IBR system that meets  the criteria established in the UCR 
NIBRS IEPD  or NIBRS Technical Specification, the  agency’s  next step is to begin submitting data 
to the FBI’s UCR Program . When an agency initially subm its data to the FBI , the Crime Statistics 
Management Unit ( CSMU ) evaluates the data based on the standards indicated in 
5.2, NIBRS 
Certification Process . The FBI consider s all data from these NIBRS  submissions as “test data” 
and the data are n ot included in the official FBI’s UCR Program database until all processing 
problems are resolved. The agency  must ensure that it has automated procedures (e.g., error handling, identifying 
incidents it will submit) in place  before  testing with the National UCR Program. The testing 
phase provides  an opportunity for the participa ting agency to understand and experience 
NIBRS submission process . Agencies Converting from SRS to NIBRS 
 To resolve data processing issues, the  agency may need to make several submissions to 
complete the testing phase. During this time, the agency should continue to send SRS data until  
the FBI certifies that the agency is a  NIBRS data contributor. If this is not feasible, the agency 
must make spe cific arrangements with the FBI to avoid data loss in SRS. Once the agency  has 
met each criterion  of the NIBRS certification process, the FBI will provide  a date when the 
agency will begin to officially initiate NIBRS  submissions. After that date,  the agen cy will no 
longer have to submit data via the  SRS. Duplicate Submission for Crime Incidents Must B e Prevented  
 When an agency  is ready to submit data via NIBRS , they must ensure they do not submit NIBRS 
data for crime data collected prior to converting to  NIBRS  (previously reported  via SRS). For 
example, assume an agency begins NIBRS reporting in June , the agency  must ensure they do 
not report d ata for months prior to June via NIBRS. Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         140  The only updates to SRS data prior to an agency’s NIBRS conversion are exceptional clearances, 
arrests, and recovered property. The FBI established guidelines regarding how to report exceptional clearances, arrests, and recovered property in those instances when the agency  
does not maintain the original incident report. With the official start of NIBRS reporting for a n 
agency, supplemental reporting will occur for previously submitted crime data in the SRS. Agency Must Begin Submitting NIBRS Data on the First Day of a Month  
 
The UCR Program  should ensure a n agency begins NIBRS submissions only on the first day of a 
given month; LEAs must not  begin NIBRS submissions on any other day . This is the NIBRS 
reporting start date. Use of this start date  will eliminate both agency  and FBI computer systems 
having to “handle” SRS and NIBR S data if an agency would implement  NIBRS sometime during a 
month  (e.g., May 1 -18 for the SRS and May 19 -31 for NIBRS). Monitoring the Certification Policy  
 
The FBI’s NIBRS Coordinator will administer  the NIBRS certification policy. The FBI will e -mail  
the agency under review when the agency has been certified or if the agency needs to take 
additional steps to obtain approval. The FBI tracks the certification status of states/agencies undergoing the NIBRS certification evaluation process. The FBI monito rs certified agencies to e nsure they maintain data quality 
standards. The NIBRS Coordinator  maintains records pertaining to agency NIBRS certification 
status. Note:  The NIBRS Coordinator serves as a cooperative liaison with personnel both internal and 
external to the FBI for the purposes of managing NIBRS issues with the CJIS APB, Association of 
State UCR Programs, the Bureau of Justice Statistics, and federal law enforcement agencies. The 
NIBRS Coordinator functions as an integral element of the NIBRS ce rtification process, working 
closely with data contributors and partner organizations to increase NIBRS participation and 
maintain data quality following certification. 5.2 NIBRS Certification Process  
 The FBI’s UCR Program deems a UCR Program or the LEA “ NIBRS Certified”  when the incident -
based  data they submitted for NIBRS certification has passed the NIBRS certification criteria. “NIBRS Certifi ed” simply means the data submitted during the NIBRS c ertification process was 
consistent with the FBI’s UCR Program standards , and the FBI will accept NIBRS data 
submissions from the state UCR Program or the LEA and will be included in the national 
database. The UCR Program expects contributing agencies to satisfy the NIBRS c ertification criteria  as 
define d to become c ertified. In addition, LEAs must  also demonstrate their ability to comply 
with the four  standards for s tate UCR Programs identified  in
 Section 1.3, UCR Programs and 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         141  Non -Program Domains , in this manual . The UCR Program considers t hese standards  essential 
for NIBRS certification . Until a UCR Program or LEA agency attains NIBRS -certified status , it is essential that they 
continue to submit SRS  data along with their NIBRS data submitted for certification. NIBRS Certification Criteria  
 
The FBI uses the following criteria  to grant a UCR program or LEA N IBRS certification:  
 
1. System Appropriateness  
 A UCR Program or LEA  must provide evidence its NIBRS -reporting system is compatible 
with the FBI’s  UCR system and follows NIBRS technical specifications. A state UCR Program 
or LEA seeking NIBRS certification must submit its incident -based system’s description 
including submission structure, crime categories, segment relationships, number of offenses collec ted per incident, and data values allowed per data element. The FBI will review this 
document for program design and concept. 2. Update Capability  and Responsiveness  
 A UCR Program or LEA  must demonstrate its ability to update submissions, meet deadlines, 
respond to FBI queries and requests , and correct errors received from the FBI’s UCR 
Program in a timely manner. A UCR Program or LEA must , at a minimum, maintain a 2 -year 
database  of NIBRS submissions  (retention period) and have the capa bility to update 
incidents from the previous calendar year.