•E
xpanded Circumstance Reporting —SRS and NIBRS both provide for collecting circumstance
data for homicides, but NIBRS also allows LE to report circumstance data for aggravated
assault. Furthermore, NIBRS permits the entry of up to two circumstance codes for each
murder or aggravated assault. •E
xpanded Collection of Drug -Related Offenses —In the SRS, the subcategories of drug
violations are limited to sale/manufacturing and possession. However, in NIBRS, LEAs can
report the unlawful cultivation, manufacture, distribution, sale, purchase, use, possession,transportation, or importation of any controlled drug or narcotic. Agencies can also report
the suspected drug type in one of the expanded drug -type categories. In the event of a drug
seizure, agencies can report the estimated quantity. NIBRS also allows agencies to report
the unlawful manufacture, sale, purchase, possession, or transporta tion of drug equipment
(paraphernalia). Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         152  In addition to capturing actual drug offenses, LEAs  using NIBRS can report whether an LE 
suspected offenders of various other offenses of having used drugs or narcotics during or 
shortly before the commission of the crime(s). • Capturing Computer Crime —To combat the growing problem of computer crime  
(i.e., crimes directed at and perpetrated through the use of computers and related 
equipment) , NIBRS provides the capability to indicate whether a computer was the objec t of 
the reported crime and to indicate whether the offenders used computer equipment to 
perpetrate a crime. •
 Association of Update d Reports —LEAs handle information updates, such as unfounding  an 
offense with subsequent submissions via the SRS, but there is no way to tie the update to 
the original offense. In NIBRS, however, updated information is available with, and directly 
tied to, the original incident. •
 Identification of Common Problems or Trends —Aside from national data requirements, 
many individual LEAs have very sophisticated records systems capable of producing a full 
range of statistics on their own activities. Some local and state IBR systems include 
additional data elements and data values to satisfy their local and state needs. As a 
byproduct o f all of those systems, NIBRS provides more common links among agencies. As 
more LEAs use NIBRS, it will allow the identification of common crime problems or trends 
among similar jurisdictions. Agencies can then work together to develop possible solutions 
or proactive strategies for addressing the issues. •
 More Useful Data —Once LEAs submit the preponderance of data via NIBRS, legislators, 
municipal planners and administrators, academicians, penologists, sociologists, and the general public will be better able to assess the nation’s crime problem. LE is a public service 
and as such, requires a full accounting from the police commissioner, chief, sheriff, or 
director as to the administration of the agency and the status of public safety within the jurisdiction . By participating in NIBRS, agencies will have statistics to fulfill this 
responsibility. NIBRS furnishes information on nearly every major criminal justice issue 
facing LE today. The data are available from all levels of LE— city, university/college, coun ty, 
state, tribal, and federal —aggregated at the level and in the manner best meet ing the 
informational needs of the data user. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   153T
he Effort to Collect Better Data  
A
s the National UCR Program has been moving to modernize over the last several years, recen t 
events in our nation have magnified the need to collect better and more informative data. To 
that end, the FBI has made getting those data a priority for the FBI. T he National UCR Program  
in coordination with major LE organizations and federal partners , including the Bureau of 
Justice Statistics and the Office of Partner Engagement, have been working diligently at all 
levels to improve the data collection  for reliability, accuracy, accessibility, and timeliness . R
ather than dividing its resources between two data collections, the National UCR Program is 
focusing its efforts on NIBRS, which offers more detailed, robust data, as well as the flexibility for LEAs  to adapt their RMSs  to the ever -growing challenges of b attling crime. That is why the 
FBI Director and the national program staff have been reaching out to the CJIS Advisory Policy Board (APB) and other LE  organizations. With the help of these advisory groups, the FBI plans to 
fully implement a NIBRS- only coll ection at the national level over the next few years an d to 
retire the traditional SRS. I
n garnering the support it needs to fully transition to NIBRS the thousands of agencies that 
participate in the UCR Program, the FBI discussed the topic with members  of the CJIS APB at the 
June 2015 meeting. At the time, the APB moved for the National UCR Program staff to develop 
a topic paper regarding the potential transition from SRS to NIBRS and the retirement of the SRS. The topic paper will include information about funding mechanisms to support local, state, 
and tribal agencies. The APB recommended that the National UCR Program staff include 
substantive communication with the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, the Major Cities Chiefs 
Association, the Internati onal Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Sheriffs’ Association, 
the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the National Governors Association, and the National Association of Counties. The FBI looks forward to working with these agencies to develop a transit ion plan so that all agencies can benefit from the collection of these broader data. Na
tional Crime Statistics Exchange (NCS -X) Project  
In 2013, the National UCR Program partnered with the Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS) to 
create the NCS -X to encourage local and state agencies to submit crime data via NIBRS. The 
goal of the NCS -X is to increase NIBRS participation to a threshold of sufficient coverage to 
generate stat istically sound national estimates of crime. With this information, LE can make 
more informed decisions about policy. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   1548 APPENDIX C – Time -Window Submissions  
T
ime-Window Submissions will not be required in the new UCR System. Since many LEAs will 
continue to submit these data until their RMS s are updated, the FBI will continue to accept the 
Time -Window Submissions. However, these submissions will simply replace the existing data 
with the newer data that is submitted. R
efer to the NIBRS Technical Spec ification  for more information on Time -Window Submissions. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   1559 APPENDIX D – UCR  Glossary  Definitions  
A
cting in Concert  – requires all offenders to commit or assist in the commission of all the 
crimes in an incident. The offenders must be aware of, and consent to, the commission of all 
the offenses; or even if nonconsenting, their actions assist in the commission of all of the offenses. Sa
me Time and Place – presupposes that if the same person or group of persons 
committed more than one crime and the time  and space intervals separating them were 
insignificant, all the crimes make -up a single incident. Auto
matic firearm  - any firearm that shoots, or is designed to shoot, more than one shot at a 
time by a single pull of the trigger without manual reloading. B
ias Crime  – a committed criminal offense that is motivated in whole or in part, by the 
offender’s bias(es) against a race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, ethnicity, gender, or gender identity; aslo known as Hate Crime. C
argo Theft  - the criminal taking of any cargo including, but not limited to, goods, chattels, 
money, or baggage that constitutes, in whole or in part, a commercial shipment of freight moving in commerce, from any pipeline system, railroad car, motor truck, or other vehicle, or from any tank or storage facility, station house, platform, or depot, or from any vessel or wharf, or from any aircraft, air terminal, airport, aircraft terminal or air freight station, warehouse, freight distribution facility, or freight consolidation facility . D
ata element - the smallest named item of data that  conveys meaningful information or 
condenses a lengthy description into a short code. Man
datory – required in order to have a complete/valid data submission. C
onditional  –dependent upon the data values submitted for other data elements. O
ptional  –can be reported at the discretion of the agency. D
ata Value  – a specific characteristic or type of field being reported that has an assigned code, 
e.g., M = Male or F = Female. F
orced entry  -where the burglar used force of any degree or a mechanical contrivance of any 
kind (including a passkey or skeleton key) to unlawfully enter a building or other structure . Un
forced entry  - where the burglar unlawful ly entered  through an unlocked door or 
window , but used no force . Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         156  Gang  -An ongoing organization, association, or group of three or more persons who have a 
common interest and/or activity characterized by the commission of or involvement in a 
pattern of criminal or delinquent conduct. Juvenile Gang  - refers to a group of persons who go about together or act in concert, 
especially for antisocial or criminal purposes; typically, adolescent members have common identifying signs and symbols, such as hand signals and distinctive colors; they are als o known as street gangs. Other Gang  - Persons associated with the world of criminal gangs and organized crime 
commonly related to widespread criminal activities coordinated and controlled through a central syndicate and who rely on their unlawful activities for income; they traditionally extort money from businesses by intimidation, violence, or other illegal methods. Incident - one or more offenses committed by the same offender, or group of offenders acting 
in concert, at the same time and place. Mutua lly exclusive  - offenses that cannot occur to the same victim according to UCR 
Definitions. Lesser included offenses  -offenses where one offense is an element of another offense 
and cannot be reported as having happened to the victim along with the other offense. NIBRS start date –first day of a given month when an agency begins contributing NIBRS data .