In addition, the offender can make the threats associated with 
Intimidation in person, over the telephone, or in writing. 510 Bribery  
 The offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of anything of valu e (e.g., a bribe, gratuity, or 
kickback) to sway the judgment or action of a person in a  position of trust or influence  
 In addition to bribes, gratuities, and kickbacks, the phrase, “anything of value,” includes favors or anything else used illegally to i nfluence the outcome of something governed by law, fair play, 
contractual agreement, or any other guideline. The offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of the 
bribe would bring the outcome of an event outside any realm of reasonableness, the result of which could be predicted based on the offering or influence given to the person(s) in a position to render decisions. Note : This offense excludes sports bribery (i.e., changing the outcome of a sporting contest 
or event). Agencies should report such activities under the crime category of gambling offenses as Sports Tampering, not Bribery. 220 Burglary/Breaking and Entering  
 The unlawful entry into a building or other structure with the intent to commit a felony or a theft  
 LEAs should classify offenses locally known as B urglary (any degree), unlawful entry with intent 
to commit a larceny or felony, breaking and entering with intent to commit a larceny, housebreaking, and safecracking as burglary. However, because Larceny/ Theft i s an element of 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         24  Burglary, agencies should not report the Larceny as a separate offense if it is associated with 
the unlawful entry of a structure. The element of trespass is essential to the offense of 
Burglary/ Breaking and Entering. By definition, a structure has four walls, a roof , and a door (e.g., a partment , barn, cabin , church, 
condominium, dwelling house , factory, g arage , house trailer or houseboat if used as a 
permanent dwelling, mill, o ffice , outbuilding , public building , railroad car, room , school , stable , 
vessel  or ship, w arehouse ). A structure is also any house trailer or other mobile unit permanently fixed as an office, residence, or storehouse. However, a tent, tent trailer, motor home, house trailer, or any other 
mobile unit used for rec reational purposes is not a structure. LEAs should not classify t he illegal 
entry of such mobile units, followed by a felony, theft, or attempt to commit a felony or theft, as burglary, but rather as larceny. Hotel Rule  
 
The Hotel Rule applies to burglaries of hotels, motels, lodging houses, or other places where 
lodging of transients is the main purpose . Burglaries of temporary rental storage facilities, e.g., 
mini- storage and self -storage buildings, can pose reporting questions. • If a number of units un der a single manager are the object of a B urglary and the manager, 
rather than the individual tenants/renters, will most likely report the offenses to the police, 
the agency should report the B urglary to the FBI ’s UCR Program as a single incident. Examples are burglaries of a number of rental hotel rooms, rooms in “flop” houses, rooms in a youth hostel, and units in a motel . • If multiple occupants rent or lease individual living or working areas in a building for a 
period of time, which would preclude the tenancy from being classified as transient, and the 
occupants would most likely report the individual burglaries separately, the reporting agency should submit the burglaries as separate incidents. Examples of this latter type of 
multiple burg laries include burglaries of a number of apartments in an apartment house, 
offices of a number of commercial firms in a business building, offices of separate professionals within one building, and rooms in a college dormitory. Whenever a question arises as to whether a type of structure comes within the scope  of the 
Burglary definition, LEAs should examine the nature of the crime and use the examples 
provided as guidance. When a hotel, motel, inn, other temporary lodging, or a rental storage facility is  the object of a 
Burglary , the LEA should report the number of premises (e.g., rooms, suites, units, or storage 
compartments) in Data Element 10 (Number of Premises Entered). For all Burglary offenses, the 
agency should report the method of entry in Data E lement 11 (Method of Entry) as either data 
value F = Force or N = No Force. A forced entry occurs when the offender(s) use s force of any 
degree or a mechanical contrivance of any kind (e.g., a passkey or skeleton key) to unlawfully 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         25  enter a building or othe r structure. An unforced entry occurs when the offender(s) achieve s 
unlawful entry without force through an unlocked door or window. If both forced and unforced 
entries are involved, the agency should enter F = Force. Agencies should report incidental da mage resulting from a B urglary (e.g., a forced door, broken 
window, hole in the wall, or dynamited safe) only if the amount of damage is deemed substantial by the reporting agency. If deemed substantial, the agency should report the 
damage under the offens e category D estruction/ Damage/ Vandalism of property. Note:  LEAs should classify offenses according to NIBRS definitions and not according to local, 
state, or federal codes. For example, though some jurisdictions may categorize a S hoplifting or 
a Theft From an A utomobile as B urglary, the UCR Program considers these offenses as 
Larcenies. Thefts from an A utomobile (whether locked or not); S hoplifting from commercial 
establishments; and Thefts from C oin Boxes, or C oin-Operated Machines (including machines 
that accept paper bills) do not involve unlawful entry of a structure; thus, no Burglary occurred. 250 Counterfeiting/Forgery  
 The altering, copying, or imitation of something, without authority or right, with the intent to deceive or defraud by passing t he copy or thing altered or imitated as that which is original or 
genuine ; or, the selling, buying, or possession of an altered, copied, or imitated thing with the  
intent to deceive or defraud 
 
Most states treat Counterfeiting and F orgery as allied offense s. This category includes offenses 
such as altering and forging public and other records; making, altering, forging or counterfeiting bills, notes, drafts, tickets, checks, credit cards, etc. ; forging wills, deeds, notes, bonds, seals, trademarks, etc. ; co unterfeiting coins, plates, banknotes, checks, etc. ; possessing forged or 
counterfeit instruments; erasures; signing the name of another or fictitious person with intent to defraud; using forged labels; possession, manufacture, etc., of counterfeiting appa ratus; and 
selling goods with altered, forged, or counterfeit trademarks. Although Counterfeiting/ Forgery 
offenses can involve elements of F raud, the FBI’s UCR Program treats them separately due to 
their unique nature. Agencies should enter the type of ac tivity (namely publishing, distributing, selling, buying, 
possessing, or transporting) in Data Element 12, (Type Criminal Activity/Gang Information). Likewise, the agency should enter the type of property altered, counterfeited, or forged in Data 
Element 1 5 (Property Description). Problems arise in scoring Counterfeiting/Forgery offenses for UCR purposes when LEAs find the 
offender(s) used forged checks or counterfeit money to obtain items such as cash, groceries, electronic equipment, etc. If the offense of Counterfeiting/ Forgery is completed, the Type 
Property Loss/Etc. can only be 3 = Counterfeited/Forged, 5 = Recovered, or 6 = Seized. Therefore, LEAs do not report items the offender(s) obtained as the result of passing a forged 
or counterfeit instrumen t. 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         26  When incidents involving the passing of a forged or counterfeited instrument to obtain items 
occur, an additional F raud offense should accompany the Counterfeiting/Forgery to allow the 
capture of fraudulently obtained items. Example:  A lone male enters  a department store to purchase a $400 television and a $300 DVD 
player (retail value) with a forged check. Later, the store manager finds  the offender(s) used a 
forged check to make the purchase. The manager th en summon s the police to file a report. LEAs  should report  the incident with UCR Offense Code, 250 = Counterfeiting/Forgery; Type 
Property Loss/Etc., 3 = Counterfeited/Forged; Property Description, 21 = Negotiable Instruments ( $700). In addition, Offense Code 26A  = False Pretense/Swindle/Confidence Game; 
Type Property Loss/Etc., 7 = Stolen/Etc. ; Property Description, 26 = Radios/TV s/DVDs; Value of 
Property, $550 (wholesale value) should be reported. Note:  Once the forged check (a non -negotiable instrument with no monetary value) was passed 
to the ma nager for the television and DVD player, and the manager countersigned the check for 
deposit, the n on-negotiable instrument became a negotiable instrument. Although the forged 
check was written for $700, the wholesale value of the stolen property ($550) sh ould be 
reported. Properly countersigned checks, even if done in a fraudulent manner, are considered 
negotiable instruments for UCR  reporting  purposes. 290 Destruction/Damage/Vandalism of Property  (except Arson)  
 
To willfully or maliciously destroy, damage, deface, or otherwise injure real or personal 
property without the consent of the owner or the person having custody or control of it  
 As a general rule, LEO s should report this offense only if they deem substantial damage  to 
property has occurred, e.g., major structural damage , property damage generally classified as a 
felony destruction of property . Agencies should not report insubstantial damage, such as a 
broken window or other minor damage . The FBI’s UCR Program leaves  the determination of 
whether the damage was substantial to the discretion of the reporting LEA as it should not 
require burdensome damage assessments. Note:  Agencies should report incidental damage resulting from another offense (e.g., B urglary 
or Robber y) under D estruction/ Damage/ Vandalism only if they deem the amount of damage to 
be substantial . With regard to Arson, agencies should include the incidental damage resulting 
from fighting the fire as part of the loss caused by burning. 35A – 35B Drug/Nar cotic Offenses  
 The violation of laws prohibiting the production, distribution, and/or use of certain controlled  
substances and the equipment or devices utilized in their preparation and/or use  
 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         27  For Drug/Narcotic Offenses, reporting agencies must  enter the type of activities (up to 3, 
namely, cultivating, manufacturing, distributing, selling, buying, using, possessing, transporting, 
or importing) in Data Element 12 (Type Criminal Activity/Gang Involvement). 35A Drug/Narcotic Violations  
 The unlawful cultivation, manufacture, distribution, sale, purchase, use, possession, 
transportation, or importation of any contro lled drug or narcotic substance  
 Because it is difficult to determine the street value of drugs or narcotics seized in D rug/ Narcot ic 
Violations, reporting agencies should not enter a data value in Data Element 16 (Value of 
Property). However, agencies  must  report the type of drug or narcotic in Data Element 20 
(Suspected Drug Type); the quantity in Data Element 21 (Estimated Drug Qua ntity); and the 
type of measurement, e.g., kilograms or liquid ounces, in Data Element 22 (Type Drug Measurement). 35B Drug Equipment Violations  
 The unlawful manufacture, sale, purchase, possession, or transportation of equipment or devices utilized in preparing and/or using drugs or narcotics  
 This offense covers those cases involving drug paraphernalia, equipment, chemicals, illegal labs, 
etc. Various statutes and/or codes may vary in the description of unlawful equipment or 
paraphernalia involved with drugs/narcotics. 270 Embezzlement  
 
The unlawful misappropriation by an offender to his/her own use or purpose of money, property, or some other thing of value entrusted to hi s/her care, custody, or control  
 
In general, an employer/employee or legal agent relationship must exist for E mbezzlement to 
occur. Typically, the victims of these offenses are businesses, financial institutions, etc. Agencies must  enter the type of victim in Data Element 25 (Type of Vic tim) (e.g., financial 
institution, business, government, individual, religious organization, society/public, and other). 210 Extortion/Blackmail  
 To unlawfully obtain money, property, or any other thing of value, either tangible or intangible, through the  use or threat of force, misuse of authority, threat of criminal 
prosecution, threat of destruction of reputation or social standing, or through other coercive means  
 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         28  Even though persons are involved or victimized in cases of E xtortion/ Blackmail, the object of 
these crimes is to obtain money , property , or intangible s (i.e. reputation etc.) ; therefore, they 
should be classified as Crimes Against Property. Extortions include offenses where the offender made threats in non -confrontational 
circumstances and the victim is not in fear of immediate harm. If during a demand for money, 
property, etc., there is a personal confrontation between the victim and offender and the offender has the opportunity to carry out the threat of force or violence immediately, the 
agency should report the offense as r obbery. If an LEA determines the Extortion/ Blackmail produced an intangible benefit  (i.e., advantage or 
disadvantage), the agency must  enter it as data value 66 = Identity -Intangible (provided the 
agency has updated property descriptions) or 77 = Other in Data Element 15 (Property 
Description) . Intangibles are anything a person cannot perceive by the sense of touch. They can 
be a benefit (a right or privilege, a promotion, enhanced rep utation, etc.) or a detriment (the 
loss of reputation, injured feelings, etc.). 77 = Other should only be used for identity intangibles 
when an agency has not programmed the new property descriptions . 26A – 26G Fraud Offenses  (except Counterfeiting/Forger y and Bad Checks)  
 The intentional perversion of the truth for the purpose of inducing another person or other entity in reliance upon it to part with something of value or to surrender a legal right  
 When classifying fraud cases other than the most obviou s ones, e.g., con games, swindles, etc., 
agencies should use care in applying the facts of the case to the definition of F raud. Often 
questions arise as to whether or not the facts of a case describe a F raud or a Larceny. Though 
both offenses can involve t heft, it is the method used to steal that differentiates the two. Fraud 
is achieved through deceit or lying, whereas Larceny is the physical taking of something. By definition, F raud involves either the offender receiving a benefit or the victim incurring  a 
detriment. The benefit or detriment could be either tangible or intangible. Intangibles are 
anything a person cannot perceive by the sense of touch. They can be a benefit (a right or 
privilege, a promotion, enhanced reputation, etc.) or a detriment (the  loss of reputation, 
injured feelings, etc.). For example, if a person impersonates a doctor to gain entrance to a 
restricted area of a hospital, the benefit to the offender (entry to the restricted area) is an intangible. The only fraud -related violatio ns agencies should not report under the Fraud Offenses category 
are Counterfeiting /Forgery  and Bad Checks. These offenses have their own specific offense 
classifications. Examples of common fraud involve cases in which an offender rents something of value, e.g., equipment or an automobile, for a period of time but does not return the item. Agencies should 
classify this offense, conversion of goods lawfully possessed by a bailee, as F raud and not 
Larceny. In such cases, the offenders originally had law ful possession of the property (the 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         29  prop erty was either rented or loaned) and through deceit (they promised to return it) kept the 
property. A common classification problem is the taking of gasoline without paying for it. If an offender 
steals  gasoline fr om a self -service gas station without paying for it, the reporting agency should 
classif y the offense as a 23H  = All Other Larceny. In this case, the victim made no contract or 
agreement for payment with the offender . However, if someone gets gasoline at  a full -service gas station and drives off without paying for 
it, the offense is considered to be a 26A = False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game . The 
individual asked someone to provide a service and product to them and failed to pay for it (they 
made a t acit agreement for product and services rendered). Note:  Agencies should report the most specific subcategory of fraud whenever the 
circumstances fit the definition of more than one of the subcategories listed below. For 
example, many  frauds would fit the definition of False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game. However, if the offender used a credit card to perpetrate the F raud, the agency should classify 
the offense as C redit Card/ Automated Teller Machine Fraud. 26A False Pretenses/Swi ndle/Confidence Game  
 The intentional misrepresentation of existing fact or condition or the use of some other 
deceptive scheme or device to obtain money, goods, or other things of value  
 
This offense includes renting a vehicle and failing to return it, dining at a restaurant and failing 
to pay the bill, or misrepresenting information on an application for a firearm. 26B Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine Fraud  The unlawful use of a credit (or debit) card or automated teller ma chine for fraudulent 
purposes  
 This offense does not apply to the theft of a credit/debit card but rather its fraudulent use. 26C Impersonation  
 Falsely representing one’ s identity or position and acting in the character or position thus 
unlawfully assumed to deceive others and thereby gain a profit or advantage, enjoy some right or privilege, or subject another person or entity to an expense, charge, or liability that would not have otherwise been incurred  
 
Note:   If a credit card number is fraudulently  used, LEAs should report this as a  
26B = Credit Card Fraud. Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         30  Example:  In order to receive special discounts from a business an individual put on a military 
uniform and enters the business. The individual is not a military service member and uses the 
fake uniform with the purpose  of impersonating a service member to receive a discount. 26D Welfare Fraud  
 The use of deceitful statements, practices, or devices to unl awfully obtain welfare benefits  
 
This offense includes the fraudulent use of electronic benefit transfer (EBT) cards  for welfare 
purposes (e.g., SNAP cards, government -sponsored cash cards) . 26E Wire Fraud  
 
The use of an electric or electronic communications facility to intentionally transmit a false 
and/or deceptive message in furtherance of a fraudulent activity  
 This classification applies to those cases where telephone, teletype, computers, e -mail, text 
messages, etc., are used in the commission or furtherance of a fraud. For example, if someone 
uses a computer to order products through a  fraudulent online auction s ite and pays for the 
products but never receives them, LEAs should classify the incident as 26E = W ire Fraud. 26F Identity Theft  
 Wrongfully obtaining and using another person’s personal data (e.g., name, date of birth, Social Security number, driver’s li cense number). This offense includes opening a credit card, bank account, etc. using a person’s information. (New) This offense  should not be confused with  Impersonation  (26C) (falsely acting in the 
character or position to unlawfully deceive others to gain a profit or advantage; when impersonating another person, the offender would not be in possession of another person’s personal data). 26G Hacking/Computer Invasion  
 Wron gfully gaining access to another person’s or institution’s computer software, hardware, 
or networks without authorized permissions or security clearances. 39A – 39D Gambling Offenses  
 To unlawfully bet or wager money or something else of value; assist, promote, or operate a 
game of chance for money or some other stake; possess or transmit wagering information; manufacture, sell, purchase, possess, or transport gambling equipment, devices, or goods; or tamper with the outcome of a sporting event or conte st to gain a gambling advantage  
 
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         31  While explicit definitions are provided for most Group A crimes, some crimes, such as G ambling  
Offenses, depend on the violation of locally established statutes. For example, in those areas of 
the nation where gambling is l egal, agencies should report gambling offenses only if they 
violate the statutes of the jurisdiction. If a seizure is involved, the reporting agency must  enter the type of property seized, e.g., money 
or gambling equipment, in Data Element 15 (Property De scription) and its value in Data 
Element 16 (Value of Property). 39A Betting/Wagering  
 To unlawfully stake money or something else of value on the happening of an uncertain 
event or on the asc ertainment of a fact in dispute  
 
39B Operating/Promoting/Assist ing Gambling  
 To unlawfully operate, promote, or assist in the operation of a game of chance, lottery, or other gambling activity  
 This offense includes bookmaking, numbers running, transmitting wagering information, etc. 39C Gambling Equipment Violations  
 To unlawfully manufacture, sell, buy, possess, or transport equipment, devices, and/or goods used for gambling purposes  
 Gambling paraphernalia is another name for s uch equipment. Agencies must  enter the type of activity (namely manufacturing, selling, buying, possessing, or 
transporting) in Data Element 12 (Type Criminal Activity/Gang Information). 39D Sports Tampering  
 To unlawfully alter, meddle in, or otherwise interfere with a sporting contest or event for the purpose of gaining a gambling advantage  
 
This offense includes engaging in B ribery for gambling purposes. For example, if an offender 
bribed a jockey to lose a horse race, the agency must  report the offense as Sports Tampering , 
not Bribery. 09A – 09C Homicide Offenses  
 The killin g of one human being by another  
 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   32LE
As should report the circumstances of a homicide in Data Element 31 (Aggravated 
Assault/Homicide Circumstances). 09A Murder and N on-Negligent Manslaughter  
T
he willful (n on-negligent) killin g of one human being by another  
A
s a general rule, agencies should classify in this category any death due to injuries received in 
a fight, argument, quarrel, assault, or commission of a crime. Although LEAs may charge 
offenders with lesser offenses, e.g., Negligent Manslaughter, agencies should report the 
offense as Murder and N on-Negligent Manslaughter if the killing was willful or intentional. Ag
encies should not classify suicides, traffic fatalities (including those involving DUI), fetal 
deaths, assaults to murde r, attempted murders, or accidental deaths as Murder and N on-
Negligent Manslaughter. The National UCR Program traditionally excludes suicides, traffic 
fatalities, and fetal deaths from its crime counts. In addition, the  National  UCR Program 
classifies assa ult to M urder and attempted murder as A ggravated Assault, and it counts some 
accidental deaths as Negligent Manslaughter. Sit
uations in which a victim dies of a heart attack as a result of a Robbery or of witnessing a 
crime likewise do not meet the criteria for inclusion as Murder and Non-Negligent 
Manslaughter. An offender cannot willfully cause someone to have a heart attack. Even in 
instances where an individual has a weak heart, there is no assurance an offender can cause 
sufficient emotional or physical stress to guarantee the victim will suffer a fatal heart attack. Note:  The findings of a court, coroner’s inquest, etc., should not influence the reporting of 
offenses in this category. 09B
 Negligent Manslaughter  
T
he killing of an other person through negligence  
T
his offense includes killings resulting from hunting accidents, gun cleaning, children playing 
with guns, etc. It does not include deaths of persons due to their own negligence, accidental 
deaths not resulting from gross negligence, an d accidental traffic fatalities. Note:  This offense does not include Vehicular Manslaughter, which agencies should report as 
Murder and N on-Negligent Manslaughter if not accidental or All Other Offenses if accidental. T
he following Negligent Manslaughter definition will be  effective on January 1, 2019:  
T
his offense includes killings resulting from hunting accidents, gun cleaning, children playing 
with guns , and arrests  associated with driving under the influence, distracted driving (using a 
cell/smartphone) and reckless driving traffic fatalities. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   33Note:  It does not include deaths of persons due to their own negligence, accidental deaths not 
resulting from gross negligence, and accidental traffic fatalities. 09C J
ustifiable  Homicide (Not a Crime)  
T
he killing of a perpetrator of a serious criminal offense by a peace officer in the line of duty, 
or the killing, during the commission of a serious criminal offense, of the perpetrator by a 
private individual  
Ju
stifiable Homicide, by definition,  always occurs in conjunction with a serious criminal offense  
(i.e., a felony or high misdemeanor). Agencies must report  the crime that was being committed 
when the Justifiable Homicide took place  as a separate incident . The definition of an incident 
requires all offenders to act in concert. Certainly, the criminal killed  justifiably  did not act in 
concert with the police officer or civilian who killed him; likewise, the police officer or civilian who killed the criminal did not act in concert with the  criminal in committing the offense that 
resulted in  the Justifiable Homicide. Therefore, Justifiable Homicide cases involve at least two 
incidents rather than one. If the “justified” killer committed another offense in connection with 
the Justifiable Homicide (e.g., illegal possession of the gun he/she used) , the LEA should report 
a third incident. LE mu
st report the additional circumstances regarding a Justifiable Homicide in Data Element 
32 (Additional Justifiable Homicide Circumstances). 64
A – 64B Human Trafficking Offenses  
T
he inducement of a person to perform a commercial sex act, or labor, or services, th rough 
force, fraud, or coercion  
H
uman trafficking has also occurred if a person under 18 years  of age has been induced, or 
enticed, regardless o f force, fraud, or coercion, to perform a commercial sex act  
64A H
uman Trafficking , Commercial Sex Acts  
Induc
ing a person by force, fraud, or coercion to participate in commercial sex acts, or in 
which the person induced to perform such act(s) has not attained 18 years of age  
64B
 Human Trafficking , Involuntary Servitude  
T
he obtaining of a person(s) through recruitment, harboring, transportation, or provision, and 
subjecting such persons by force, fraud, or coercion into in voluntary servitude, peonage,  debt 
bondage, or slavery (not to include commercial sex acts)  
100 Ki
dnapping/Abduction  
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   34T
he unlawful seizure, transportation, and/or detention of a person against his/her will or of a 
minor without the consent of his/her custodial parent(s) or legal guardian   
K
idnapping /Abduction includes hostage  and parental abduction situations as well. This offense  
is the only Crime Against Person for which LEAs must report property information. In such 
cases, the property segment is necessary to report information regarding any ransom paid for the victim’s release. Although the object of a kidnapping may be to obtain money or property, 
LEAs may only report the persons actually kidnapped, abducted, or detained against their will 
as victims for this offense type . Those persons or organizations paying ransoms  must not  be 
counted as victims for Kidnapping/ Abduction offenses . Note:  If no ransom is paid, Data Element 14 (Type Property Loss/Etc.) Must  be reported as    1 = 
None. 23A
 – 23H Larceny/Theft Offenses  
T
he unlawful taking, carrying, leading, or riding away of property from the possession or 
constructive possession of another person  
L
arceny and T heft mean the same thing in the UCR Program. Local offense classifications such 
as grand theft, petty larceny, fel ony larceny, or misdemeanor larceny have no bearing on the 
fact that LEAs should report one offense for each distinct operation of such larcenies for UCR 
purposes, regardless of the value of the property stolen. W
hen multiple types of L arceny/ Theft occur within a single incident, agencies should report all 
types of Larceny/ Theft involved. LEAs should report m ultiple Larceny/ Theft offenses because 
these offenses are not inherent. Fo
r example, if an individual stole a factory -installed radio valued at $600 and a laptop 
computer valued at $1,500 from a motor vehicle in the same incident, the agency should report 
both offenses —Theft of Motor Vehicle Parts or Accessories for the radio and a T heft From 
Motor Vehicle for the laptop.