3. Error Rate  
 
Data submissions must be logical and  consistent. The FBI measures logic by the percent age 
of Group A Incident Report submissions containing  an error. The FBI defines the error rate 
as the numbe r of rejected reports over the number of reports submitted . The FBI requires a 
sustained error rate of 4 percent or less for three separate data submissions. The 
listing/definition of errors are included in the NIBRS Technical Specification. 4. Statistical R easonableness  
 Data submissions must be statistically reasonable as a whole  (in comparison to national 
trends) . While the error rate assesses the existence of logical mechanical flaws in the data, 
it does not address data in the aggregate. The FBI’s UCR Program evaluates aggregate data 
submissions in terms of percent distribution, data trend, volume, and monthly fluctuations. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   1425.3 Quality Assurance Review (QAR) Process  
T
he FBI’s CJIS Audit Unit (CAU) developed the QAR process  to assist UCR agencies in c ollecting 
and reporting accurate and dependable crime data. Its mission is to assess compliance with the 
standards to operate a certified UCR Program. The CAU does this by reviewing and evaluating 
incident reports to ensure the data  that are  reported meets  FBI’s UCR Program guidelines and 
offense definitions. The QAR assesses NIBRS data at state and local levels. The CAU offers 
participation in a QAR to each UCR Program every 3 years, but participation is not mandatory. O
bjectives of the QAR  
The objectiv es of the QAR are to:  
•Evaluate the UCR Program’s conformity to FBI ’s UCR Program guidelines. •Confirm the accuracy of the statistics. •Ensure consistency in crime reporting. •Increase agency reporting integrity. •Assess discrepancies in crime reporting practices. •Provide feedback and identify UCR Program needs. •Evaluate the effectiveness of the response to recommendations made during the previous
QAR. T
he QAR reviews the accuracy and completeness of crime data at LEAs with the presumption 
that the LEA has initially reported accurate and complete data to the FBI ’s UCR Program. The 
QAR compares this data to the case documentation immediately available. Therefore, it is 
rather unlikely that a compliance review such as the QAR would yield results similar to an 
investigation that may include in -depth offender, victim, and witness interviews. Se
veral months before  the scheduled QAR, CAU contacts the UCR Program’s manager to begin 
the review process that  includes the LEA providing pertinent documentation and se lecting 
agencies to review. A QAR at the local level consists of an administrative interview, data quality 
review, and an exit briefing. The administrative review focuses on how an agency manages 
incident reporting. During the data quality review, the audi tor reviews a predetermined 
number of incidents based on a random sampling method applied at the state level. For all 
records selected, the auditor then compared the complete incident reports to data reported to the FBI ’s UCR Program to determine if the LE A appropriately applied national standards and 
definitions. The auditor then conducts the exit briefing to review administrative interview and 
data quality review findings with agency personnel. CAU then compiles local and state agency 
information into a d raft report and submits the report to the UCR Program’s manager, who 
should respond to any recommendations within 30 days of receipt of the report. CAU then 
finalizes the report and shares the results with the APB UCR Subcommittee during its semi -
annual me etings. Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         143  The QAR provides a valuable service to both state and local UCR participants. It is a free 
resource that LEAs can use to gauge their compatibility with the FBI ’s UCR Program standards. Valid and accurate crime statistics allow LEAs to better alloc ate resources and provide more 
meaningful information in the development of crime legislation. State, Territorial, Tribal, and Federal UCR QARs  
 The National UCR Program expects  UCR contributors to develop and implement their own 
quality assurance procedures for ensuring proper classification of UCR submissions for their reporting domain. To ensure the highest quality and uniformity of the data nationwide, the contributors should assess its agency’s data to ensure compliance with the National UCR Program’ s standards and 
requirements. State  UCR Programs should assess the validity of the crime data they submit 
through reviews of reporting procedures at the contributor level. UCR Programs should confirm 
the accuracy of their statistics by assessing discrepancies in offense classification. Training and Education  
 To ensure uniformity in the submission of crime data and further enhance the quality of the 
data the FBI ’s UCR Program publishe s, the FBI has trainers who provide on- site training for LEAs 
participating in the UCR Program. The trainers furnish introductory, intermediate, and 
advanced courses in data collection procedures and guidelines for NIBRS, the LEOKA Program, the Hate Crime Statistics Program, and Cargo Theft. The trainers are availab le via e-mail  
(ucrtrainers@leo.gov
) to provide LEAs with answers to specific questions about classification 
and scoring , as well as other questions about the UCR Program. The trainers provide:  
 
• Responses to lette rs, facsimiles, e -mails, or telephone questions regarding  clarifications of 
issues, policies, and procedures  for NIBRS, the Hate Crime S tatistics  Program, LEOKA, and 
Cargo Theft. • Background information and subject matter expertise. • Policy files for historic references. • Liaison with UCR Program and l ocal LEA personnel to ensure the FBI’s UCR Program is 
meeting their needs . The FBI also employs specialized coordinators wh o provide support for the NIBRS , LEOKA  and 
Hate Crime  Programs who  are available to answer questions or address issues. The NIBRS 
Coordinator provides support for agencies who  contribute data via NIBRS or who  want National 
UCR Program certification to contribute data using NIBRS. Similarly, the LEOKA and Hate Crime  
Coord inator s provide training and support for the LEOKA Program. All of the  coordinators work 
to increase participation in their respective programs and are available to answer questions or 
V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   144a
ddress issues. They serve as liaisons with and provide support to other FBI staff. These 
coordinators can be reached via e -mail at the following website:   <crimestatsinfo@fbi.gov >. Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         145  6 APPENDIX A – History of the FBI’s  UCR Program and NIBRS  
 
The National UCR Program  
 Recognizing  a need for national crime statistics, the IACP formed the Committee on Uniform 
Crime Records in the 1920s to develop a system of uniform crime statistics. In 1929, after 
studying various facets of crime, assessing state criminal codes, and evaluating recordkeeping practices, the Committee completed a plan for crime reporting that became the foundation of 
the National UCR Program. The plan included standardized offense definitions for seven main 
classifications of crime to gauge fluctuations in the overall volume and rate of crime. The seven 
classifications were the violent crimes of murder and N on-Negligent manslaughter, rape, 
robbery, and aggravated assault and the property crimes of burglary, larceny/ theft, and motor 
vehicle theft. By congressional mandate, the UCR  Program added arson as the eighth major 
offense in 1979. In January 1930, 400 cities representing 20 million inhabitants in 43 states began part icipating 
in the FBI’s UCR Program. The same year, the IACP was instrumental in gaining congressional 
approval that authorized the FBI to serve as the national clearinghouse for statistical 
information on crime. Since th is time, the nation’s LEAs have prov ided the FBI ’s UCR Program 
with data based on uniform classifications and procedures for reporting. Redesign of UCR  
 
Although the National UCR Program remained virtually unchanged throughout the years in 
terms of the data collected and disseminated, by the 1980s a broad utility had evolved for UCR information. Recognizing the need for improved statistics, LE called for a thorough evaluative 
study to modernize the UCR Program. The FBI concurred with the need for an updated program 
and lent its complete support, formulating a comprehensive three -phase redesign effort. The 
Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS), the Department of Justice agency responsible for funding criminal justice information projects, agreed to underwrite the first two phases. These phases, 
which would be conducted by an independent contractor, Abt Associates Inc. of Cambridge, 
Massachusetts , would determine what, if any, changes should be made to the current program. The third phase would involve implementation of the changes identified. In 1982, contractors began phase I by examining the historical evolution of the FBI’s UCR 
Program. The study included all aspects of the program —the objectives and intended user 
audience, data issues, reporting mechanisms, quality control issues, publications and user 
services, and relationships with other criminal justice data systems. In 1984, contractors 
launched phase II of the redesign effort by examining the potential of UCR and its future role. Throughout Phase I and Phase II, stakeholders reviewed study findings, discussed the 
contractor’s suggestions, and proposed various revisions to the contractor’s report. These 
stakeholders included the FBI, the BJS, a joint committee on UCR with members from the IACP and the NSA, a steering committee comprised of individuals representing various disciplines, and attendees from two national UCR Conferences. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   146T
he group released a final report, the Blueprint for the Future of the Uniform Crime Reporting 
Program  (Blueprint), in May 1985. It specifically out lined three recommended areas of 
enhancement to expand and improve the National UCR Program to meet future informational 
needs. First, agencies would use an incident -based system to report offenses and arrests. Second, the FBI ’s UCR Program would collect d ata on two levels, and third, the FBI’s UCR 
Program would introduce a quality assurance program. I
n January 1986, the FBI began phase III of the redesign effort guided by the general 
recommendations set forth in the Blueprint . The FBI awarded a contract t o develop new 
offense definitions and data elements (incident details) and to develop the guidelines and 
design specifications for implementing the new incident -based system. Though the FBI’s UCR 
staff oversaw the direction of the project, the FBI collaborated with the Association of State UCR Programs (ASUCRP), the IACP, the National Alliance of State Drug Enforcement Agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and various local, state, and federal criminal justice agencies. C
oncurrent with preparing the data elements, the FBI studied various state systems to select an 
experimental site for implementing the redesigned program. Chosen for its long -standing 
incident -based UCR Program and its willingness to adapt it to the National UCR Program’s  
specifica tions, the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED) enlisted the cooperation of 
nine local LEAs , representing in relative terms the small, medium, and large departments in 
South Carolina, to participate in the project. To assist SLED with the pilot p roject, FBI personnel 
developed automated data capture specifications to adapt the SLED’s state system to the National UCR Program’s  standards, and the BJS funded the revisions. The pilot demonstration 
ran from March 1, 1987, until September 30, 1987, and resulted in further refinement of the guidelines and specifications. T
he FBI held a national UCR Conference on March 1 -3, 1988, in Orange Beach, Alabama, to 
present the new system to LE and obtain feedback on its acceptability. Attendees of the 
national UCR Conference passed three overall recommendations without dissent:  first, a new 
incident -based national crime reporting system be established; second, the FBI manage this 
program; and third, an Advisory Policy Board composed of LE executives be formed to assist in 
directing and implementing the new program. Furthermore, attendees recommended the 
implementation of national incident- based reporting proceed at a pace commensurate with the 
resources and limitations of contributing LEAs. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   147E
stablishing and Developing NIBRS  
Fro
m March 1988 through January 1989, the FBI proceeded in developing and assuming 
management of the New UCR system, and by April 1989, the National UCR Program received 
the first test tape of NIBRS data. Over the course of the next few years, the UCR Program 
published information about the redesigned program in five documents:  
1.D
ata Collection Guidelines —A system overview with descriptions of the offenses, offense
codes, reports, data elements, and data values. 2.D
ata Submission Specifications —Data layouts for use by state and local systems personnel
responsible for preparing magnetic media for submission to the FBI. 3.A
pproaches to Implementing an Incident -Based System —A guide for system designers. 4.E
rror Message Manual —Designati ons of mandatory and optional data elements, data
element edits, and error messages. 5.U
niform Crime Reporting Handbook, NIBRS Edition —A nontechnical program overview
focused on the definitions, policies, and procedures of NIBRS. T
hese  documents are no longer available, as they have been combined into this document and 
the NIBRS Technical Specification. As
 originally established, NIBRS used 52 data elements to collect a wide variety of crime data 
via six types of data segments:  administrative, offense, victim, property, offender, and arrestee. The use of the segments and their respective data values (codes assigned for permitted entries) 
depended upon whether the offender’s crime fit into the Group A or  
Group B offense categories. I
n an effort to provide  state and local agencies with a stable system to implement, the FBI made 
the commitment in the late 1980s to hold all recommended system changes to NIBRS in abeyance until a substantial amount of contributors implemented the system. Agreement was 
reached  not to make several changes so LEAs could implement a program that was not 
continuously changing. However, to meet crime’s growing challenges, lawmakers required the 
following modifications to NIBRS:  
•H
ate Crime Statistics Program Data —Following Congress’ passage of the Hate Crime
Statistics Act of 1990, the FBI added a new data element to NIBRS to indicate whether ornot the offense being reported was motivated by a bias against race, religion,
ethnicity/national origin, or sexual orientation , and, if so, what kind. The Violent Crime and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 amended the Hate Crime Statistics Act to include  bias against
persons with  disabilit ies. The Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crime Prevention
Act mandated the collection of bias -motivated gender and gender identity information, and
crimes committed by and against juveniles. In addition, the National UCR Program now
 
Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         148  collects up to five  bias motivations per offense type. The FBI’s UCR Program began 
accepting this data on January 1, 2013. On June 5, 2013, the CJIS APB approved a motion to 
modify the UCR Program’s Hate Crime data collection procedures to begin collecting seven 
new religion s (anti -Buddhist, anti -Eastern Orthodox, anti -Hindu, anti- Jehovah’s Witness, 
anti-Mormon, anti -Other Christian, and anti -Sikh), as well as an anti -Arab bias motivation. The collection of these new categories began on January 1, 2015. • Gang Activity Indicator —In response to another Congressional mandate in 1997, the FBI 
expanded an existing data element to indicate whether or not the type of criminal activity being reported was associated with gang violence. The added data values allowed for 
juvenile gang entries as well as general gang associations. • Cargo Theft Indicator —The USA Patriot Improvement and R eauthorization Act of 2005 
mandated the FBI to collect cargo theft data, and the FBI began accepting test data on 
January 1, 2010. • Human Trafficking —The William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization 
Act of 2008 (TVPRA,  28 U.S.C. § 534)  signed into law on Dece mber 23, 2008, reauthorize d 
the Trafficking Victims’ Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA, 22 U.S.C. § 7102)  and required the 
FBI’s UCR Program to collect and classify the crime of Human Trafficking as a Part I ( SRS) and  
Group A (NIBRS) offense in UCR, e stablish sub categories for state sex crimes, and 
distinguish between incidents of assisting or promoting prostitution, purchasing  
prostitution, and prostitution. The FBI ’s UCR Program began  accepting this data on January 
1, 2013. To meet the data needs of LE for officer safety and evolving crime challenges, the flexibility of 
NIBRS has permitted LE to incorporate additional modifications. • Data for Officers Killed or Assaulted —Under the direction of an advisory committee, the FBI 
began collecting LEOKA data via NIBRS through three new data elements and a series of 
new data codes in January 2003. The new data elements indicate the victim officer’s type of 
activity/circumstance, the type of assignment, and the ORI of the LEO’s  agency if the 
offender killed or assaulted  the victim officer in a jurisdiction other than his own. • Removal of Runaway Category —In December 2008, the CJIS APB approved the elimination 
of the arrest category Runaway from the FBI ’s UCR Program. The FBI’s UCR Program will no 
longer accept submissions of 90I = Runaway. • Additional Location and Property Code s—As of January 1, 2010, the FBI began accepting 
additional data values for the location and property data elements. At the request of the 
ASUCRP, and with the group’s assistance, the FBI ’s UCR Program expanded the location and 
property codes to better capture the location of crimes and the property involved. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   149•C
hanges to the Definition of Rape and Other Related Sex Offenses —At the fall 2011 CJIS
APB meeting, the APB recommended, and then FBI Director Robert S. Mueller, III, approved,
changing the definition of rape in the FBI ’s UCR Program and removing the words “forcible”
and “against the person’s will” in the SRS, NIBRS, the Hate Crime Statistics Program, and
Cargo Theft data collection. In addition to collecting data following the new definition, the
APB recommended that the FBI’s UCR Program continue to  collect historical rape data. The
FBI’s UCR Program began  accepting this data on January 1, 2013. •C
hanges to the Race and Ethnicity Data Collected —To comply with the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB)  1997 directive, Revision to the Standards for the
Classification of Federal Data on Race and Ethnicity , the FBI began collecting ethnicity data
and expanded the race categories in all FBI ’s UCR Program data collections in 2013. The
ethnicity categories include Hispanic or Latino and Not Hispanic or Latino; the race
categories include American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American,
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and White. •A
dditional NIBRS Offenses and Location Code –On Apr il 28, 2014 the Director of the FBI
approved the APB recommendations to add two additional fraud offenses of Identity Theftand Hacking/Computer Invasion. The Fall 2014 APB approved the recommendation to addCyberspace as a location code. On September 9, 2 014, The FBI Director approved the APB
recommendation to collect Animal Cruelty and four additional data values on the specific
type of abuse  to include:  simple/gross neglect, intentional abuse and torture, organized
abuse, and animal sexual abuse. Version 1.0, 3/22/ 2018                                                         150  7 APPENDIX B – Benefits of NIBRS Participation  
 
NIBRS is an indispensable tool in the war against crime because it is capable of producing 
detailed, accurate, and meaningful data. When used to its full potential,  NIBRS identifies with 
precision when and whe re crime takes place, what form it takes, and the characteristics of its 
victims and perpetrators. Armed with such information, LE can better define the resources it 
needs to fight crime, as well as use those resources in the most efficient and effective m anner. Although most of the general concepts for collecting, scoring, and reporting UCR data in the SRS  
apply in NIBRS, such as jurisdictional rules, there are some important differences in the two systems. The most notable differences that give NIBRS an  advantage over SRS are:  
 
• No Hierarchy Rule —In the SRS, the Hierarchy Rule requires LEAs to report only the most 
serious offense per incident; therefore, they do not report lower -listed offenses in multiple -
offense incidents. In NIBRS, LEAs report every of fense occur ring during an incident provided 
the offense s are separate and distinct crime s, not just as part of another offense, i.e., a 
“mutually exclusive” crime. (For more information about mutually exclusive offenses, refer 
to the NIBRS Technical Specif ication , Data Element 24, Victim Connected to UCR Offense 
Code.) • Revised, Expanded, and New Offense Definitions —The FBI’s UCR Program revised several 
SRS offense definitions for NIBRS -reporting purposes (e.g., the definition of assault to 
include the offense of Intimidation, the definition of burglary to include self- storage units 
with regard to the hotel rule ). Furthermore, NIBRS defines and collects many specific sex 
offenses, including such crimes as sodomy, sexual assault with an object, and fondli ng, and 
sex offenses, N on-Forcible , including such crimes as statutory rape and incest . In the SRS, 
these crimes are lumped under one category of Other Sex Offenses , a Part II arrest offense . • Using NIBRS, LE can report offense and arrest data for 24 Group  A offense categories 
(including 52 specific crimes) rather than the 10 Part I offenses in SRS. In addition, NIBRS 
captures arrest data for 1 0 Group B offense categories (including 1 0 crimes), while the SRS 
collects arrest data for 2 0 Part II crimes. • Distinguishing Between Attempted and Completed Group A Crimes —Except for the 
offenses of rape and burglary, the SRS does not differentiate between attempted and 
completed Part I crimes. NIBRS recognizes the difference between attempted and 
completed Group A c rimes. V
ersion 1.0, 3/22/ 2018   151•G
reater Specificity in Reporting —Because SRS collects most of its crime data in the form of
categories (e.g., age groupings and property value groupings), it provides very little
capability to break down the resulting data into specific subcategor ies. However, because
NIBRS collects the details of crime incidents, it allows much greater specificity in reporting. Some of those details include type of victim, residential status of victim and arrestee,
weapons data for several crimes, and the value of  property stolen or recovered. •Ad
ditional Scoring Category —In addition to the categories of Crimes Against Persons
(e.g., murder, rape, and aggravated assault) and Crimes Against Property (e.g., robbery,
burglary, and larceny /theft) in SRS, NIBRS offers  the category of Crimes Against Society. These crimes are not against persons because they do not actually involve an injured party;nor are they against property because property is not the object of the crime. Program
developers created the category to represent society’s prohibitions on engaging in certain
types of activity, such as drug/narcotic offenses, gambling offenses, pornography/obscene
material, and prostitution offenses. •E
xpanded Victim -to-Offender Relationship Data —In the SRS, LE  reports the  relationship of
the victim to the offender (e.g., the victim was the husband, wife, employer, or employee,
of the offender) only for homicides (i.e., Murder and Non-Negligent Manslaughter,
Manslaughter by Negligence, and J ustifiable Homicide). In NIBRS, h owever, LE reports the
victim’s relationship to the offender(s) when the victim was the object of a Crime AgainstPerson, such as an assault offense, homicide offense, kidnapping/abduction, or sex offense. Victim- to-offender relationship data are also reported for R obbery (Crimes  Against
Property) because one of its elements is an assault, which makes it a violent crime.